deb-split(5)                      dpkg suite                      deb-split(5)

NAME
       deb-split - Debian multi-part binary package format

SYNOPSIS
       filename.deb

DESCRIPTION
       The multi-part .deb format is used to split big packages into smaller
       pieces to ease transport in small media.

FORMAT
       The file is an ar archive with a magic value of !<arch>.  The file
       names might contain a trailing slash (since dpkg 1.15.6).

       The first member is named debian-split and contains a series of lines,
       separated by newlines. Currently eight lines are present:

       o   The format version number, 2.1 at the time this manual page was
           written.

       o   The package name.

       o   The package version.

       o   The md5sum of the package.

       o   The total size of the package.

       o   The maximum part size.

       o   The current part number, followed by a slash and the total amount
           of parts (as in '1/10').

       o   The package architecture (since dpkg 1.16.1).

       Programs which read multi-part archives should be prepared for the
       minor format version number to be increased and additional lines to be
       present, and should ignore these if this is the case.

       If the major format version number has changed, an incompatible change
       has been made and the program should stop. If it has not, then the
       program should be able to safely continue, unless it encounters an
       unexpected member in the archive (except at the end), as described
       below.

       The second, last required member is named data.N, where N denotes the
       part number. It contains the raw part data.

       These members must occur in this exact order. Current implementations
       should ignore any additional members after data.N.  Further members may
       be defined in the future, and (if possible) will be placed after these
       two.

SEE ALSO
       deb(5), dpkg-split(1).

1.22.0                            2023-09-06                      deb-split(5)
