deb-triggers(5)                   dpkg suite                   deb-triggers(5)

NAME
       deb-triggers - package triggers

SYNOPSIS
       debian/triggers, debian/binary-package.triggers, DEBIAN/triggers

DESCRIPTION
       A package declares its relationship to some trigger(s) by including a
       triggers file in its control archive (i.e. DEBIAN/triggers during
       package creation).

       This file contains directives, one per line. Leading and trailing
       whitespace and everything after the first # on any line will be
       trimmed, and empty lines will be ignored.

       The trigger control directives currently supported are:

       interest trigger-name
       interest-await trigger-name
       interest-noawait trigger-name
           Specifies that the package is interested in the named trigger. All
           triggers in which a package is interested must be listed using this
           directive in the triggers control file.

           The "await" variants put the triggering package in triggers-awaited
           state depending on how the trigger was activated.  The "noawait"
           variant does not put the triggering packages in triggers-awaited
           state, even if the triggering package declared an "await"
           activation (either with an activate-await or activate directive, or
           by using the dpkg-trigger --no-await command-line option).  The
           "noawait" variant should be used when the functionality provided by
           the trigger is not crucial.

       activate trigger-name
       activate-await trigger-name
       activate-noawait trigger-name
           Arranges that changes to this package's state will activate the
           specified trigger. The trigger will be activated at the start of
           the following operations: unpack, configure, remove (including for
           the benefit of a conflicting package), purge and deconfigure.

           The "await" variants only put the triggering package in triggers-
           awaited state if the interest directive is also "await".  The
           "noawait" variant never puts the triggering packages in triggers-
           awaited state.  The "noawait" variant should be used when the
           functionality provided by the trigger is not crucial.

           If this package disappears during the unpacking of another package
           the trigger will be activated when the disappearance is noted
           towards the end of the unpack. Trigger processing, and transition
           from triggers-awaited to installed, does not cause activations.  In
           the case of unpack, triggers mentioned in both the old and new
           versions of the package will be activated.

       Unknown directives are an error which will prevent installation of the
       package.

       The "-noawait" variants should always be favored when possible since
       triggering packages are not put in triggers-awaited state and can thus
       be immediately configured without requiring the processing of the
       trigger.  If the triggering packages are dependencies of other upgraded
       packages, it will avoid an early trigger processing run and make it
       possible to run the trigger only once as one of the last steps of the
       upgrade.

       The "-noawait" variants are supported since dpkg 1.16.1, and will lead
       to errors if used with an older dpkg.

       The "-await" alias variants are supported since dpkg 1.17.21, and will
       lead to errors if used with an older dpkg.

       When a package provides an interest-noawait directive, any activation
       will set the triggering package into "noawait" mode, regardless of the
       awaiting mode requested by the activation (either "await" or
       "noawait").  When a package provides an interest or interest-await
       directive, any activation will set the triggering package into "await"
       or "noawait" depending on how it was activated.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg-trigger(1), dpkg(1), /usr/share/doc/dpkg/spec/triggers.txt.

1.22.0                            2023-09-06                   deb-triggers(5)
