deb-origin(5)                     dpkg suite                     deb-origin(5)

NAME
       deb-origin - Vendor-specific information files

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/dpkg/origins/filename

DESCRIPTION
       The files in /etc/dpkg/origins can provide information about various
       vendors who are providing Debian packages.

       They contain a number of fields, or comments when the line starts with
       '#'.  Each field begins with a tag, such as Vendor or Parent, followed
       by a colon and the body of the field. Fields are delimited only by
       field tags. In other words, field text may be multiple lines in length,
       but the tools will join lines when processing the body of the field.

       The file should be named according to the vendor name.  The usual
       convention is to name the vendor file using the vendor name in all
       lowercase, but some variation is permitted.

       Namely (since dpkg 1.21.10), first, non-alphanumeric characters
       ('[^A-Za-z0-9]') are mapped to dashes ('-'), then the resulting name
       will be tried in sequence by lower-casing it, keeping it as is, lower-
       casing then capitalizing it (that is upper-casing the first character),
       and only capitalizing it.

       In addition, for historical and backwards compatibility, the name will
       be tried keeping it as is without non-alphanumeric characters
       remapping, then the resulting name will be tried in sequence by lower-
       casing it, keeping it as is, lower-casing then capitalizing it, and
       only capitalizing it.  And finally the name will be tried by remapping
       spaces to dashes ('-'), then the resulting name will be tried in
       sequence by lower-casing it, keeping it as is, lower-casing then
       capitalizing it, and only capitalizing it.

       But these backwards compatible module lookups will be removed during
       the dpkg 1.22.x release cycle.

FIELDS
       Vendor: vendor-name (required)
           The value of this field determines the vendor name.

       Vendor-URL: vendor-url
           The value of this field determines the vendor URL.

       Bugs: bug-url
           The value of this field determines the type and address of the bug
           tracking system used by this vendor. It can be a mailto URL or a
           debbugs URL (e.g., debbugs://bugs.debian.org/).

       Parent: vendor-name
           The value of this field determines the vendor name of the vendor
           that this vendor derives from.

EXAMPLE
        Vendor: Debian
        Vendor-URL: https://www.debian.org/
        Bugs: debbugs://bugs.debian.org

SEE ALSO
       dpkg-vendor(1)

1.22.0                            2023-09-06                     deb-origin(5)
