Fax Formats(1)              General Commands Manual             Fax Formats(1)

       This page, part of the Netpbm user's guide(1), describes FAX formats in
       relation to Netpbm facilities.

       The ITU (formerly CCITT) publishes standards for operation of  fax  ma‐
       chines  (the  idea is to provide a way to be sure that a fax machine is
       able to receive a fax sent by another).  These  standards  incidentally
       specify  graphics  file formats -- a protocol for representing a visual
       image in sequences of bits.

       The two relevant standards are called Group 3 (G3)  and  Group  4  (G4)
       (Groups  1 and 2 are analog standards no longer in use).  Virtually ev‐
       ery fax machine in existence conforms at least generally  to  at  least
       one of these standards.

       The  standard for Group 3 fax is defined in ITU Recommendation T.4.  In
       the U.S., that is implemented by EIA  standards  EIA-465  and  EIA-466.
       These  standards cover more than the file format as well, including how
       to transmit bits over a telephone line and procedures for handling doc‐
       ument transmissions.

       G3  faxes  are 204 dots per inch (dpi) horizontally and 98 dpi (196 dpi
       optionally, in fine-detail mode) vertically.

       The standards specify three file formats (also  called  coding  methods
       and  compression  schemes -- remember the standard doesn't mention com‐
       puter files; it talks about the format of a stream of  bits  travelling
       over a telephone line):

       MH     This  compresses  in  one  dimension:  it  compresses individual
              raster lines but makes no attempt to compress redundancy between
              lines.

              One  dimensional compression is traditionally the best a fax ma‐
              chine could handle because G3 neither assumes error free  trans‐
              mission not retransmits when errors occur, and receiving fax ma‐
              chines traditionally could not afford to buffer much of a  page.
              It's important that when there is an error in a raster line, its
              impact not spread to many lines after it.

              All Group 3 and Group 4 fax machines must be able  to  send  and
              receive MH.

              MH  is  sometimes  called  "G3," but that is a poor name because
              while the Group 3 standard does specify MH, it has always speci‐
              fied other formats too.

              MH  is  sometimes  called "T4" based on the name of the document
              that specifies it, ITU T.4.  But this is a poor name because T.4
              also specifies MR.

       MR     This compresses in two dimensions, horizontally and vertically.

              MR has always been part of the Group 3 standard, but is optional
              (a Group 3 fax machine may or may not be able to  send  and  re‐
              ceive it).

       MMR    This is a more advanced format than the others.  It is even more
              two-dimensional than MR.  It is optional in the  Group  3  stan‐
              dard,  and  didn't even exist in earlier versions of it.  It was
              developed specifically for the Group 4 standard, but then  added
              to an extended Group 3 standard as well.

              MMR is sometimes called Group 4, but that is a poor name because
              of the fact that it is also part of the current  Group  3  stan‐
              dard.

              MMR is sometimes called "T6" based on the name of the document
               that specifies it, ITU T.6.

       g3topbm converts the MH format to PBM.  pbmtog3 converts PBM to MH.

       There is no Netpbm program to convert to or from other fax formats.

TIFF
       The  TIFF  format  is flexible enough to allow lots of different coding
       methods, within it.  There are TIFF subformats for  MH,  MR,  and  MMR,
       among  others.  These are particularly useful when you receive a fax as
       a TIFF file.

       tifftopnm recognizes and can convert from any of these.

       pamtotiff can convert to any of  these;  you  use  command  options  to
       choose which.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/faxformat.html

netpbm documentation           03 December 2008                 Fax Formats(1)