FCHDIR(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            FCHDIR(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fchdir -- change working directory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int fchdir(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The fchdir() function shall be equivalent to chdir()  except  that  the
       directory  that is to be the new current working directory is specified
       by the file descriptor fildes.

       A conforming application can obtain a file descriptor  for  a  file  of
       type  directory  using  open(), provided that the file status flags and
       access modes do not contain O_WRONLY or O_RDWR.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fchdir()  shall  return  0.  Otherwise,  it
       shall  return  -1  and  set errno to indicate the error. On failure the
       current working directory shall remain unchanged.

ERRORS
       The fchdir() function shall fail if:

       EACCES Search permission is denied  for  the  directory  referenced  by
              fildes.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not an open file descriptor.

       ENOTDIR
              The open file descriptor fildes does not refer to a directory.

       The fchdir() may fail if:

       EINTR  A signal was caught during the execution of fchdir().

       EIO    An  I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
              system.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chdir(), dirfd()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1-2017, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por-
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi-
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker-
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       FCHDIR(3POSIX)
