GETEUID(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           GETEUID(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       geteuid -- get the effective user ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       uid_t geteuid(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The geteuid() function shall return the effective user ID of the  call-
       ing process.  The geteuid() function shall not modify errno.

RETURN VALUE
       The  geteuid()  function shall always be successful and no return value
       is reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       In a conforming environment, geteuid() will always succeed. It is  pos-
       sible  for implementations to provide an extension where a process in a
       non-conforming environment will not be associated with a user or  group
       ID.  It  is  recommended that such implementations return (uid_t)-1 and
       set errno to indicate such an environment; doing so  does  not  violate
       this standard, since such an environment is already an extension.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getegid(),  getgid(),  getuid(),  setegid(),  seteuid(),  setgid(), se-
       tregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1-2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por-
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi-
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker-
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      GETEUID(3POSIX)
