GETSID(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            GETSID(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getsid -- get the process group ID of a session leader

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t getsid(pid_t pid);

DESCRIPTION
       The getsid() function shall obtain the process group ID of the  process
       that  is the session leader of the process specified by pid.  If pid is
       (pid_t)0, it specifies the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getsid() shall return the process group  ID
       of the session leader of the specified process. Otherwise, it shall re-
       turn -1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The getsid() function shall fail if:

       EPERM  The process specified by pid is not in the same session  as  the
              calling process, and the implementation does not allow access to
              the process group ID of the session leader of that process  from
              the calling process.

       ESRCH  There is no process with a process ID equal to pid.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fork(), getpid(), getpgid(), setpgid(), setsid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1-2017, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por-
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi-
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker-
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       GETSID(3POSIX)
