intel(4)                   Kernel Interfaces Manual                   intel(4)

NAME
       intel - Intel integrated graphics chipsets

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "intel"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       intel  is  an  Xorg driver for Intel integrated graphics chipsets.  The
       driver supports depths 8, 15, 16 and 24.  All  visual  types  are  sup-
       ported  in  depth  8.  For the i810/i815 other depths support the True-
       Color and DirectColor visuals.  For the i830M and later, only the True-
       Color  visual  is supported for depths greater than 8.  The driver sup-
       ports hardware accelerated 3D via the Direct  Rendering  Infrastructure
       (DRI),  but only in depth 16 for the i810/i815 and depths 16 and 24 for
       the 830M and later.

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       intel supports the i810, i810-DC100, i810e, i815, i830M,  845G,  852GM,
       855GM,  865G,  915G,  915GM,  945G,  945GM,  965G,  965Q, 946GZ, 965GM,
       945GME, G33,  Q33,  Q35,  G35,  GM45,  G45,  Q45,  G43,  G41  chipsets,
       Pineview-M  in  Atom  N400 series, Pineview-D in Atom D400/D500 series,
       Intel(R) HD Graphics, Intel(R) Iris(TM) Graphics, Intel(R) Iris(TM) Pro
       Graphics.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please  refer  to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This
       section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.

       The Intel 8xx and 9xx families of integrated graphics chipsets  have  a
       unified memory architecture meaning that system memory is used as video
       RAM.  For the i810 and i815 family of chipsets, operating  system  sup-
       port  for  allocating  system  memory  is required in order to use this
       driver.  For the 830M and later, this is  required  in  order  for  the
       driver  to  use more video RAM than has been pre-allocated at boot time
       by the BIOS.  This is usually achieved with an "agpgart" or "agp"  ker-
       nel  driver.   Linux,  FreeBSD,  OpenBSD, NetBSD, and Solaris have such
       kernel drivers available.

       By default, the i810/i815 will use 8 MB of system memory  for  graphics
       if  AGP  allocable  memory  is  < 128 MB, 16 MB if < 192 MB or 24 MB if
       higher. Use the VideoRam option to change the default value.

       For the 830M and later, the driver will automatically size  its  memory
       allocation  according  to the features it will support.  Therefore, the
       VideoRam option, which in the past had been  necessary  to  allow  more
       than some small amount of memory to be allocated, is now ignored.

       The following driver Options are supported

       Option "ColorKey" "integer"
              This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.

              Default: undefined.

       Option "DRI" "string"
              Disable  or enable DRI support. A driver name to use can be pro-
              vided instead of simple boolean value, which will be  passed  to
              the  GL  implementation  for it to load the appropriate backend.
              Alternatively the maximum level of DRI to enable (e.g. "1",  "2"
              or "3") can be specified.

              Default:  All levels of DRI are enabled for configurations where
              it is supported.

       The following driver Options  are  supported  for  the  i810  and  i815
       chipsets:

       Option "CacheLines" "integer"
              This  allows  the  user  to change the amount of graphics memory
              used for 2D acceleration and video when XAA acceleration is  en-
              abled.  Decreasing this amount leaves more for 3D textures.  In-
              creasing it can improve 2D performance at the expense of 3D per-
              formance.

              Default:  depends  on the resolution, depth, and available video
              memory.  The driver attempts to allocate space for at 3  screen-
              fuls of pixmaps plus an HD-sized XV video.  The default used for
              a specific configuration can be found by examining the Xorg  log
              file.

       Option "DDC" "boolean"
              Disable or enable DDC support.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "Dac6Bit" "boolean"
              Enable or disable 6-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.

              Default: 8-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.

       Option "XvMCSurfaces" "integer"
              This  option  enables XvMC.  The integer parameter specifies the
              number of surfaces to use.  Valid values are 6 and 7.

              Default: XvMC is disabled.

       VideoRam integer
              This option specifies the amount of system  memory  to  use  for
              graphics, in KB.

              The  default  is 8192 if AGP allocable memory is < 128 MB, 16384
              if < 192 MB, 24576 if higher. DRI require at least  a  value  of
              16384.  Higher values may give better 3D performance, at expense
              of available system memory.

       Option "Accel" "boolean"
              Enable or disable acceleration.

              Default: acceleration is enabled.

       The following driver Options are  supported  for  the  830M  and  later
       chipsets:

       Option "Accel" "boolean"
              Enable or disable acceleration.

              Default: acceleration is enabled.

       Option "Present" "boolean"
              Enable use of hardware counters and flow control for the Present
              extension.

              Default: Enabled

       Option "AccelMethod" "string"
              Select acceleration method.  There  are  a  couple  of  backends
              available  for accelerating the DDX. "UXA" (Unified Acceleration
              Architecture) is the mature backend that was introduced to  sup-
              port  the GEM driver model. It is in the process of being super-
              seded by "SNA"  (Sandybridge's  New  Acceleration).  Until  that
              process  is complete, the ability to choose which backend to use
              remains for backwards compatibility.  In addition, there  are  a
              pair of sub-options to limit the acceleration for debugging use.
              Specify "off" or "none" to disable all acceleration, or "blt" to
              disable render acceleration and only use the BLT engine.

              Default: use SNA (render acceleration)

       Option "TearFree" "boolean"
              Disable or enable TearFree updates. This option forces X to per-
              form all rendering to a backbuffer prior to updating the  actual
              display. It requires an extra memory allocation the same size as
              a framebuffer, the occasional extra copy,  and  requires  Damage
              tracking.  Thus  enabling  TearFree  requires more memory and is
              slower (reduced throughput) and introduces  a  small  amount  of
              output latency, but it should not impact input latency. However,
              the update to the screen is then  performed  synchronously  with
              the vertical refresh of the display so that the entire update is
              completed before the display starts its refresh.  That  is  only
              one  frame is ever visible, preventing an unsightly tear between
              two visible and differing frames. Note that this replicates what
              the  compositing  manager should be doing, however TearFree will
              redirect the compositor updates (and those of fullscreen  games)
              directly on to the scanout thus incurring no additional overhead
              in the composited case. Also note that not all compositing  man-
              agers  prevent  tearing,  and  if the outputs are rotated, there
              will still be tearing without TearFree enabled.

              Default: TearFree is disabled.

       Option "ReprobeOutputs" "boolean"
              Disable or  enable  rediscovery  of  connected  displays  during
              server  startup.   As  the kernel driver loads it scans for con-
              nected displays and configures a console spanning those outputs.
              When  the  X  server  starts, we then take the list of connected
              displays and framebuffer layout and use  that  for  the  initial
              configuration.  Sometimes,  not  all  displays are correctly de-
              tected by the kernel and so it is useful in a few  circumstances
              for  X  to  force  the  kernel  to  reprobe all displays when it
              starts. To make the X server recheck  the  status  of  connected
              displays,  set  the  "ReprobeOutputs" option to true.  Please do
              file a bug for any circumstances which require this workaround.

              Default: reprobing is disabled for a faster startup.

       Option "VideoKey" "integer"
              This is the same as the "ColorKey" option described  above.   It
              is provided for compatibility with most other drivers.

       Option "XvPreferOverlay" "boolean"
              Make  hardware overlay be the first XV adaptor.  The overlay be-
              haves incorrectly in the presence of compositing, but some  pre-
              fer  it  due to it syncing to vblank in the absence of composit-
              ing.  While most XV-using applications have  options  to  select
              which  XV  adaptor  to use, this option can be used to place the
              overlay first for applications which don't have options for  se-
              lecting adaptors.

              Default: Textured video adaptor is preferred.

       Option "Backlight" "string"
              Override  the  probed backlight control interface. Sometimes the
              automatically selected backlight interface may not correspond to
              the  correct,  or simply most useful, interface available on the
              system. This allows you to override that  choice  by  specifying
              the entry under /sys/class/backlight to use.

              Default: Automatic selection.

       Option "CustomEDID" "string"
              Override  the  probed  EDID on particular outputs. Sometimes the
              manufacturer supplied EDID is corrupt or lacking  a  few  usable
              modes and supplying a corrected EDID may be easier than specify-
              ing every modeline. This option allows to pass the path to  load
              an  EDID from per output. The format is a comma separated string
              of             output:path              pairs,              e.g.
              DP1:/path/to/dp1.edid,DP2:/path/to/dp2.edid

              Default: No override, use manufacturer supplied EDIDs.

       Option "FallbackDebug" "boolean"
              Enable  printing  of debugging information on acceleration fall-
              backs to the server log.

              Default: Disabled

       Option "DebugFlushBatches" "boolean"
              Flush the batch buffer after every single operation.

              Default: Disabled

       Option "DebugFlushCaches" "boolean"
              Include an MI_FLUSH at the end of every batch  buffer  to  force
              data  to be flushed out of cache and into memory before the com-
              pletion of the batch.

              Default: Disabled

       Option "DebugWait" "boolean"
              Wait for the completion of every batch buffer before continuing,
              i.e. perform synchronous rendering.

              Default: Disabled

       Option "HWRotation" "boolean"
              Override  the  use of native hardware rotation and force the use
              of software, but GPU accelerated where  possible,  rotation.  On
              some  platforms the hardware can scanout directly into a rotated
              output bypassing the intermediate rendering  and  extra  alloca-
              tions  required  for  software implemented rotation (i.e. native
              rotation uses less resources, is quicker and uses  less  power).
              This  allows  you  to disable the native rotation in case of er-
              rors.

              Default: Enabled (use hardware rotation)

       Option "VSync" "boolean"
              This option controls the use of commands to synchronise  render-
              ing  with  the  vertical  refresh of the display. Some rendering
              commands have the option to be performed in a "tear-free"  fash-
              ion by stalling the GPU to wait for the display to be outside of
              the region to be updated. This slows  down  all  rendering,  and
              historically has been the source of many GPU hangs.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "PageFlip" "boolean"
              This option controls the use of commands to flip the scanout ad-
              dress on a VBlank. This is used by glXSwapBuffers to efficiently
              perform the back-to-front exchange at the end of a frame without
              incurring the penalty of a copy, or stalling the render pipeline
              (the  flip  is  performed  asynchronrously to the render command
              stream by the display engine). However, it has historically been
              the source of many GPU hangs.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "SwapbuffersWait" "boolean"
              This option controls the behavior of glXSwapBuffers and glXCopy-
              SubBufferMESA calls by GL applications.  If enabled,  the  calls
              will  avoid  tearing by making sure the display scanline is out-
              side of the area to be copied before the copy occurs.   If  dis-
              abled, no scanline synchronization is performed, meaning tearing
              will likely occur.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "TripleBuffer" "boolean"
              This option enables the use of a third buffer for page-flipping.
              The  third  buffer  allows applications to run at vrefresh rates
              even if they occasionally fail to swapbuffers on time.  The  ef-
              fect  of  such  missed swaps is the output jitters between 60fps
              and 30fps, and in the worst case appears frame-locked to  30fps.
              The  disadvantage  of triple buffering is that there is an extra
              frame of latency, due to the pre-rendered frame sitting  in  the
              swap queue, between input and any display update.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "Tiling" "boolean"
              This  option controls whether memory buffers for Pixmaps are al-
              located in tiled mode.  In most cases  (especially  for  complex
              rendering), tiling dramatically improves performance.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "LinearFramebuffer" "boolean"
              This  option  controls  whether the memory for the scanout (also
              known as the front or frame buffer) is allocated in linear  mem-
              ory. A tiled framebuffer is required for power conservation fea-
              tures, but for certain system configurations  you  may  wish  to
              override this and force a linear layout.

              Default: disabled

       Option "RelaxedFencing" "boolean"
              This  option controls whether we attempt to allocate the minimal
              amount of memory required for  the  buffers.  The  reduction  in
              working set has a substantial improvement on system performance.
              However, this has been demonstrate to be buggy on older hardware
              (845-865  and 915-945, but ok on PineView and later) so on those
              chipsets defaults to off.

              Default: Enabled for G33 (includes PineView), and  later,  class
              machines.

       Option "XvMC" "boolean"
              Enable  XvMC driver. Current support MPEG2 MC on 915/945 and G33
              series.  User should provide absolute path to libIntelXvMC.so in
              XvMCConfig file.

              Default: Disabled.

       Option "Throttle" "boolean"
              This  option  controls whether the driver periodically waits for
              pending drawing operations to complete. Throttling ensures  that
              the  GPU does not lag too far behind the CPU and thus noticeable
              delays in user responsible at the  cost  of  throughput  perfor-
              mance.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "HotPlug" "boolean"
              This  option  controls whether the driver automatically notifies
              applications when monitors are connected or disconnected.

              Default: enabled.

       Option "Virtualheads" "integer"
              This option controls specifies the number  of  fake  outputs  to
              create  in addition to the normal outputs detected on your hard-
              ware. These outputs cannot be assigned to the  regular  displays
              attached  to  the  GPU, but do otherwise act as any other xrandr
              output and share a portion of the regular framebuffer.  One  use
              case  for these extra heads is for extending your desktop onto a
              discrete GPU using the Bumblebee project. However, the recommen-
              dation  here  is to use PRIME instead to create a single Xserver
              that can addresses and coordinate between multiple GPUs.

              Default: 0

       Option "ZaphodHeads" "string"

              Specify the randr output(s) to use with zaphod mode for  a  par-
              ticular driver instance.  If you set this option you must use it
              with all instances of the driver. By default, each head  is  as-
              signed  only  one CRTC (which limits using multiple outputs with
              that head to cloned mode). CRTC can be manually assigned to  in-
              dividual heads by preceding the output names with a comma delim-
              ited list of pipe numbers followed by a colon. Note that differ-
              ent pipes may be limited in their functionality and some outputs
              may only work with different pipes.
              For example:

              Option "ZaphodHeads" "LVDS1,VGA1"

              will assign xrandr outputs LVDS1 and VGA1 to  this  instance  of
              the driver.

              Option "ZaphodHeads" "0,2:HDMI1,DP2"

              will  assign  xrandr  outputs HDMI1 and DP2 and CRTCs 0 and 2 to
              this instance of the driver.

OUTPUT CONFIGURATION
       On 830M and better chipsets, the driver supports runtime  configuration
       of detected outputs.  You can use the xrandr tool to control outputs on
       the command line as follows:

              xrandr --output output --set property value

       Note that you may need to quote property and value arguments that  con-
       tain  spaces.  Each output listed below may have one or more properties
       associated with it (like a binary EDID block if one  is  found).   Some
       outputs  have  unique  properties  which  are described below.  See the
       "MULTIHEAD CONFIGURATIONS" section below for additional information.

   VGA
       VGA output port (typically exposed via an HD15 connector).

   LVDS
       Low Voltage Differential Signalling  output  (typically  a  laptop  LCD
       panel).  Available properties:

       BACKLIGHT - current backlight level (adjustable)
              By  adjusting the BACKLIGHT property, the brightness on the LVDS
              output can be adjusted.  In some cases, this property may be un-
              available  (for example if your platform uses an external micro-
              controller to control the backlight).

       scaling mode - control LCD panel scaling mode
              When the currently selected display mode differs from the native
              panel  resolution,  various scaling options are available. These
              include

              Center Simply center the image on-screen without  scaling.  This
                     is  the  only  scaling  mode that guarantees a one-to-one
                     correspondence between native and displayed  pixels,  but
                     some portions of the panel may be unused (so-called "let-
                     terboxing").

              Full aspect
                     Scale the image as much as possible while preserving  as-
                     pect ratio. Pixels may not be displayed one-to-one (there
                     may be some blurriness). Some portions of the  panel  may
                     be  unused  if the aspect ratio of the selected mode does
                     not match that of the panel.

              Full   Scale the image to the panel size without regard  to  as-
                     pect  ratio.  This is the only mode which guarantees that
                     every pixel of the panel will be used. But the  displayed
                     image  may be distorted by stretching either horizontally
                     or vertically, and pixels may not be displayed one-to-one
                     (there may be some blurriness).

       The  precise  names of these options may differ depending on the kernel
       video driver, (but the functionality should be similar). See the output
       of xrandr --prop for a list of currently available scaling modes.

   TV
       Integrated TV output.  Available properties include:

       BOTTOM, RIGHT, TOP, LEFT - margins
              Adjusting  these  properties allows you to control the placement
              of your TV output buffer on the screen.  The  options  with  the
              same name can also be set in xorg.conf with integer value.

       BRIGHTNESS - TV brightness, range 0-255
              Adjust TV brightness, default value is 128.

       CONTRAST - TV contrast, range 0-255
              Adjust  TV  contrast,  default  value is 1.0 in chipset specific
              format.

       SATURATION - TV saturation, range 0-255
              Adjust TV saturation, default value is 1.0 in  chipset  specific
              format.

       HUE - TV hue, range 0-255
              Adjust TV hue, default value is 0.

       TV_FORMAT - output standard
              This  property allows you to control the output standard used on
              your TV output port.  You can select between  NTSC-M,  NTSC-443,
              NTSC-J, PAL-M, PAL-N, and PAL.

       TV_Connector - connector type
              This  config  option  should  be added to xorg.conf TV monitor's
              section, it allows you to force the TV  output  connector  type,
              which  bypass  load  detect  and TV will always be taken as con-
              nected. You can select between S-Video, Composite and Component.

   TMDS-1
       First DVI SDVO output

   TMDS-2
       Second DVI SDVO output

   TMDS-1 , TMDS-2 , HDMI-1 , HDMI-2
       DVI/HDMI outputs. Available common properties include:

       BROADCAST_RGB - method used to set RGB color range
              Adjusting this property allows you to set  RGB  color  range  on
              each  channel  in  order to match HDTV requirement(default 0 for
              full range). Setting 1 means RGB color range is 16-235, 0  means
              RGB color range is 0-255 on each channel.  (Full range is 0-255,
              not 16-235)

       SDVO and DVO TV outputs are not supported by the driver at this time.

       See xorg.conf(5) for information on associating Monitor  sections  with
       these  outputs  for  configuration.   Associating Monitor sections with
       each output can be helpful if you need to ignore a specific output, for
       example, or statically configure an extended desktop monitor layout.

MULTIHEAD CONFIGURATIONS
       The  number  of  independent outputs is dictated by the number of CRTCs
       (in X parlance) a given chip supports.  Most recent  Intel  chips  have
       two  CRTCs, meaning that two separate framebuffers can be displayed si-
       multaneously, in an extended desktop configuration.  If a chip supports
       more outputs than it has CRTCs (say local flat panel, VGA and TV in the
       case of many outputs), two of the outputs will  have  to  be  "cloned",
       meaning  that  they  display the same framebuffer contents (or one dis-
       plays a subset of another's framebuffer if the modes aren't equal).

       You can use the "xrandr" tool, or various desktop utilities, to  change
       your  output  configuration  at  runtime.  To statically configure your
       outputs, you can use the "Monitor-<type>" options along with additional
       monitor sections in your xorg.conf to create your screen topology.  The
       example below puts the VGA output to the right of  the  builtin  laptop
       screen, both running at 1024x768.

       Section "Monitor"
         Identifier "Laptop FooBar Internal Display"
         Option "Position" "0 0"
       EndSection

       Section "Monitor"
         Identifier "Some Random CRT"
         Option "Position" "1024 0"
         Option "RightOf" "Laptop FoodBar Internal Display"
       EndSection

       Section "Device"
         Driver "intel"
         Option "monitor-LVDS" "Laptop FooBar Internal Display"
         Option "monitor-VGA" "Some Random CRT"
       EndSection

TEXTURED VIDEO ATTRIBUTES
       The driver supports the following X11 Xv attributes for Textured Video.
       You can use the "xvattr" tool to query/set those attributes at runtime.

   XV_SYNC_TO_VBLANK
       XV_SYNC_TO_VBLANK is used to control whether textured adapter  synchro-
       nizes  the  screen  update  to the vblank to eliminate tearing. It is a
       Boolean attribute with values of 0 (never sync) or 1 (always sync).  An
       historic  value  of -1 (sync for large windows only) will now be inter-
       preted as 1, (since the current approach for sync is  not  costly  even
       with small video windows).

   XV_BRIGHTNESS
   XV_CONTRAST
REPORTING BUGS
       The  xf86-video-intel  driver  is part of the X.Org and Freedesktop.org
       umbrella  projects.   Details  on  bug  reporting  can  be   found   at
       https://01.org/linuxgraphics/documentation/how-report-bugs.     Mailing
       lists are also commonly used to report experiences  and  ask  questions
       about  configuration  and  other topics.  See lists.freedesktop.org for
       more information (the xorg@lists.freedesktop.org mailing  list  is  the
       most appropriate place to ask X.Org and driver related questions).

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

AUTHORS
       Authors include: Keith Whitwell, and also Jonathan Bian, Matthew J Sot-
       tek, Jeff Hartmann, Mark Vojkovich, Alan Hourihane, H. J. Lu.  830M and
       845G  support  reworked  for  XFree86  4.3  by  David  Dawes  and Keith
       Whitwell.  852GM, 855GM, and 865G support  added  by  David  Dawes  and
       Keith Whitwell.  915G, 915GM, 945G, 945GM, 965G, 965Q and 946GZ support
       added by Alan Hourihane and Keith Whitwell. Lid status support added by
       Alan  Hourihane. Textured video support for 915G and later chips, RandR
       1.2 and hardware modesetting added by Eric Anholt  and  Keith  Packard.
       EXA  and Render acceleration added by Wang Zhenyu. TV out support added
       by Zou Nan Hai and Keith Packard. 965GM,  G33,  Q33,  and  Q35  support
       added by Wang Zhenyu.

X Version 11               xf86-video-intel 2.99.917                  intel(4)
