Lintian::Processable::InstalDebiLintian::Processable::Installable::Relation(3)

NAME
       Lintian::Processable::Installable::Relation - Lintian interface to
       binary package data collection

SYNOPSIS
           my ($name, $type, $dir) = ('foobar', 'binary', '/path/to/lab-entry');
           my $collect = Lintian::Processable::Installable::Relation->new($name);

DESCRIPTION
       Lintian::Processable::Installable::Relation provides an interface to
       package data for binary packages.  It implements data collection
       methods specific to binary packages.

       This module is in its infancy.  Most of Lintian still reads all data
       from files in the laboratory whenever that data is needed and generates
       that data via collect scripts.  The goal is to eventually access all
       data about binary packages via this module so that the module can cache
       data where appropriate and possibly retire collect scripts in favor of
       caching that data in memory.

       Native heuristics are only available in source packages.

INSTANCE METHODS
       relation (FIELD)
           Returns a Lintian::Relation object for the specified FIELD, which
           should be one of the possible relationship fields of a Debian
           package or one of the following special values:

           All The concatenation of Pre-Depends, Depends, Recommends, and
               Suggests.

           Strong
               The concatenation of Pre-Depends and Depends.

           Weak
               The concatenation of Recommends and Suggests.

           If FIELD isn't present in the package, the returned
           Lintian::Relation object will be empty (always present and
           satisfies nothing).

       saved_relations

AUTHOR
       Originally written by Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org> for Lintian.
       Amended by Felix Lechner <felix.lechner@lease-up.com> for Lintian.

SEE ALSO
       lintian(1)

Lintian v2.116.3                Lintian::Processable::Installable::Relation(3)
