MBSINIT(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           MBSINIT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbsinit — determine conversion object status

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       int mbsinit(const mbstate_t *ps);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       If  ps  is  not  a null pointer, the mbsinit() function shall determine
       whether the object pointed to by ps  describes  an  initial  conversion
       state.

RETURN VALUE
       The  mbsinit()  function shall return non-zero if ps is a null pointer,
       or if the pointed-to object describes an initial conversion state; oth‐
       erwise, it shall return zero.

       If  an mbstate_t object is altered by any of the functions described as
       ``restartable'', and is then used with a different character  sequence,
       or in the other conversion direction, or with a different LC_CTYPE cat‐
       egory setting than on earlier function calls,  the  behavior  is  unde‐
       fined.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  mbstate_t  object is used to describe the current conversion state
       from a particular character sequence to a wide-character  sequence  (or
       vice  versa)  under  the  rules of a particular setting of the LC_CTYPE
       category of the current locale.

       The initial conversion state corresponds, for a  conversion  in  either
       direction,  to the beginning of a new character sequence in the initial
       shift state. A zero valued mbstate_t object is at least one way to  de‐
       scribe  an initial conversion state. A zero valued mbstate_t object can
       be used to initiate conversion involving any character sequence, in any
       LC_CTYPE category setting.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mbrlen(), mbrtowc(), mbsrtowcs(), wcrtomb(), wcsrtombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      MBSINIT(3POSIX)
