NEARBYINT(3POSIX)          POSIX Programmer's Manual         NEARBYINT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       nearbyint, nearbyintf, nearbyintl — floating-point rounding functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double nearbyint(double x);
       float nearbyintf(float x);
       long double nearbyintl(long double x);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       These  functions  shall  round  their  argument  to an integer value in
       floating-point format, using the current rounding direction and without
       raising the inexact floating-point exception.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  these functions shall return the rounded
       integer value.  The result shall have the same sign as x.

       If x is NaN, a NaN shall be returned.

       If x is ±0, ±0 shall be returned.

       If x is ±Inf, x shall be returned.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The integral value returned by these functions need not be  expressible
       as  an intmax_t.  The return value should be tested before assigning it
       to an integer type to avoid the undefined results of an  integer  over‐
       flow.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), fetestexcept()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 4.20, Treatment of
       Error Conditions for Mathematical Functions, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                    NEARBYINT(3POSIX)
