Pnmcat User Manual(1)       General Commands Manual      Pnmcat User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmcat - concatenate Netpbm images

SYNOPSIS
       pnmcat

       {-leftright | -lr | -topbottom | -tb}

       [-white|-black]

       [-jtop|-jbottom|-jcenter] [-jleft|-jright|-jcenter]

       pnmfile ...

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pnmcat reads one or more PNM images as input, concatenates them  either
       left to right or top to bottom, and produces a single PNM image as out‐
       put.

       The arguments are names of input files.  Any one of these, but not more
       than  one, may be "-" to indicate Standard Input.  If you have no argu‐
       ments, that means a single input image from Standard Input (and that is
       pointless - the output is the same as the input).

       To assemble a regular grid of images, you can use pamundice.

       To  do  the  reverse,  you  might use pamdice to split an image up into
       smaller ones of equal size or pamcut to chop off part of  an  image  or
       extract part of an image.

       pnmtile concatenates a single input image to itself repeatedly.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ),  pnmcat  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

   Direction
       -topbottom, -tb
              Combine images vertically, top to bottom.

       -leftright, -lr
              Combine images horizontally, left to right.

              You must specify the direction by specifying one of the above.

   Justification
       -jleft, -jcenter, -jright
                If the PNM images are not all the same height when you're con‐
              catenating left
                to right or width when you're concatenating top to bottom, the
              smaller ones
                have  to  be  justified  with the largest.  By default, pnmcat
              centers
                them, but you can specify justification to  one  side  or  the
              other with one of
                the -jxxx options.  So, -topbottom -jleft would stack the PNMs
              on top of each other, flush  with  the  left  edge.   -leftright
              -jbottom  would line up the images left to right with their bot‐
              tom edges aligned as if sitting on a table.

   Margin Color
       -white, -black
              These options specify what color to use to  fill  in  the  extra
              space  when  doing  the justification.  If neither is specified,
              pnmcat chooses whichever seems to be right for the images.

SEE ALSO
       pamundice(1), pamdice(1), pnmtile(1), pamcut(1), pnm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmcat.html

netpbm documentation              30 May 2011            Pnmcat User Manual(1)