Ppmpat User Manual(1)       General Commands Manual      Ppmpat User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmpat - make a pretty PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       ppmpat  [{-gingham2|-g2} | {-gingham3|-g3} | -madras | -tartan | -poles
       | -squig | -camo | -anticamo | -argyle1 | -argyle2] [-color  colorlist]
       [-mesh] [-randomseed integer]

       width height

       You can abbreviate any option to its shortest unique prefix.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmpat produces a PPM of the specified width and height, with a pattern
       in it.

       You could, for example, use it  to  create  wallpaper  for  a  computer
       screen.

       One  use  of  this program is as an example of the Netpbm library draw‐
       ing(1) functions, which it uses.

       Some of the patterns have large numbers of colors, so  if  you  want  a
       simpler pattern, use pnmquant on the output.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ),  ppmpat  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

   Pattern Specification
       Specify  the pattern type with these options.  One pattern type must be
       specified.

       -gingham2 -g2
              A gingham check pattern.  Can be tiled.

              If you specify -color, give two  colors:  background  and  fore‐
              ground, in that order.

       -gingham3 -g3
              A slightly more complicated gingham.  Can be tiled.

              If  you  specify  -color,  give three colors: background and two
              foregrounds, in that order.

       -madras
              A madras plaid.  Can be tiled.

              If you specify -color, give three  colors:  background  and  two
              foregrounds, in that order.

       -tartan
              A tartan plaid.  Can be tiled.

              If  you  specify  -color,  give three colors: background and two
              foregrounds, in that order.

       -poles Color gradients centered on randomly-placed poles.

              If you specify -color, give two or more colors.

       -squig Squiggley tubular pattern.  Can be tiled.

              If you specify -color, give three or more colors.  The first  is
              the background color.

       -camo  Camouflage pattern.

              If  you specify -color, give three or more colors.  The first is
              the background color; the others are colors for the leafy  fore‐
              ground  shapes.   The  foreground  shapes  will  probably occupy
              nearly the entire image, so that the background color is  barely
              visible.

       -anticamo
              Anti-camouflage pattern - like -camo, but ultra-bright colors.

              If you specify -color, this is the same as -camo.

       -argyle1
              A  diamond  argyle pattern, without a cross through the diamond,
              with one diamond.  Can be tiled.

              If you specify -color, give two  colors:  background  and  fore‐
              ground, in that order.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.78 (March 2017).

       -argyle2
              A diamond argyle pattern, with a cross through the diamond, with
              one diamond.  Can be tiled.

              If you specify -color,  give  three  colors:  background,  fore‐
              ground, and stripe, in that order.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.78 (March 2017).

   Other Options
       -color colorlist
              This specifies the colors to appear in the pattern.

              If you do not specify this option, ppmpat chooses colors at ran‐
              dom.

              Different patterns take different numbers of colors.   Some  can
              involve  variable numbers of colors.  If you specify a number of
              colors incompatible with the pattern you specify, ppmpat  fails,
              telling you how many colors to specify.

              colorlist is a comma-separated list of colors.

              Specify  each  color  as  described  for  the  argument  of  the
              pnm_parsecolor()                 library                 routine
              ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩ .

              Example: -color red, green, rgbi:1.0/0.5/.25 .

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.78 (March 2017).

       -mesh  This  option  affects  the  patterns generated by the -gingham2,
              -gingham3, -madras, and -tartan.  When this option is not speci‐
              fied, when two colors intersect, the program mixes them and puts
              the average in the rectangular intersection region.  with -mesh,
              the  program  fills that region with a checkerboard pattern con‐
              sisting of the two colors.  The resulting  image  looks  like  a
              true  woven  fabric, with separate threads for the separate col‐
              ors.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.97 (December 2021).

       -randomseed integer
              This is the seed for the random number generator that  generates
              the pixels.

              Use  this  to  ensure you get the same image on separate invoca‐
              tions.

              By default, ppmpat uses a seed derived from the time of day  and
              process  ID, which gives you fairly uncorrelated results in mul‐
              tiple invocations.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.61 (December 2012).

REFERENCES
       Some of the patterns are from "Designer's Guide to Color 3"  by  Jeanne
       Allen.

SEE ALSO
       pnmtile(1),  pnmquant(1),  ppmmake(1),  ppmrainbow(1),  pamgradient(1),
       ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmpat.html

netpbm documentation             02 March 2016           Ppmpat User Manual(1)