RAISE(3POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             RAISE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       raise — send a signal to the executing process

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int raise(int sig);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  raise() function shall send the signal sig to the executing thread
       or process.  If a signal handler is called, the raise() function  shall
       not return until after the signal handler does.

       The effect of the raise() function shall be equivalent to calling:

           pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, a non-zero
       value shall be returned and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The raise() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the sig argument is an invalid signal number.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The term ``thread'' is an extension to the ISO C standard.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       kill(), sigaction()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <signal.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        RAISE(3POSIX)
