Rawtoppm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Rawtoppm User Manual(1)

NAME
       rawtoppm - convert a stream of raw RGB bytes to a PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       rawtoppm

       [-headerskip N]

       [-rowskip N]

       [ -rgb|-rbg|-grb |-gbr|-brg|-bgr ]

       [-interpixel|-interrow] width height

       [imagedata]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       rawtoppm  reads raw RGB bytes as input and produces a PPM image as out‐
       put.  The input file is just RGB bytes.  You have to specify the  width
       and  height  on the command line, since the program obviously can't get
       them from the file.  rawtoppm assumes the maxval of the  input  samples
       is 255, and makes the maxval of the output PPM 255.

       rawtoppm  assumes  the  pixels  come top first in the input stream.  If
       they are actually bottom first, the resulting PPM is  upside  down,  so
       run it through pamflip -tb.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), rawtoppm  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -headerskip
              Skip  over this many bytes at the beginning of the input stream.
              Use this option when the input has some kind of header  followed
              by a raster suitable for rawtoppm.

       -rowskip
              Skip  this  many  bytes  at  the  end of each row of the raster.
              (Some input streams have padding at the end of rows).

       -rgb -rbg -grb -gbr -brg -bgr
              This option specifies the order of the color components for each
              pixel.  The default is -rgb.

       -interpixel -interrow
              These  options  specify how the colors are interleaved.  The de‐
              fault is -interpixel, meaning interleaved by pixel.  A  byte  of
              red,  a byte of green, and a byte of blue, or whatever color or‐
              der you specified.  -interrow means interleaved by row -  a  row
              of  red,  a  row  of green, a row of blue, assuming standard rgb
              color order.  An -interplane option - all the red  pixels,  then
              all  the  green,  then all the blue - would be an obvious exten‐
              sion, but is not implemented.  You could get the same effect  by
              splitting  the file into three parts (perhaps using dd), turning
              each part into a PGM file with rawtopgm, and then combining them
              with rgb3toppm.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(1), rawtopgm(1), rgb3toppm(1), pamflip(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/rawtoppm.html

netpbm documentation           06 February 1991        Rawtoppm User Manual(1)