SCHED_YIELD(3POSIX)        POSIX Programmer's Manual       SCHED_YIELD(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sched_yield — yield the processor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sched.h>

       int sched_yield(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The sched_yield() function shall force the running thread to relinquish
       the  processor  until  it again becomes the head of its thread list. It
       takes no arguments.

RETURN VALUE
       The sched_yield() function shall return 0 if it completes successfully;
       otherwise,  it shall return a value of -1 and set errno to indicate the
       error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The conceptual model for scheduling semantics in POSIX.1‐2008 defines a
       set of thread lists. This set of thread lists is always present regard‐
       less of the scheduling options supported by the  system.  On  a  system
       where the Process Scheduling option is not supported, portable applica‐
       tions should not make any assumptions regarding  whether  threads  from
       other processes will be on the same thread list.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sched.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                  SCHED_YIELD(3POSIX)
