SETPGRP(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           SETPGRP(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setpgrp — set the process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t setpgrp(void);

DESCRIPTION
       If the calling process is not already a session leader, setpgrp()  sets
       the  process  group  ID of the calling process to the process ID of the
       calling process. If setpgrp() creates a new session, then the new  ses‐
       sion has no controlling terminal.

       The setpgrp() function has no effect when the calling process is a ses‐
       sion leader.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon completion, setpgrp() shall return the process group ID.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       It is unspecified whether this function behaves as setpgid(0,0) or set‐
       sid() unless the process is already a session leader. Therefore, appli‐
       cations are encouraged to use setpgid() or setsid() as appropriate.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       The setpgrp() function may be removed in a future version.

SEE ALSO
       exec, fork(), getpid(), getsid(), kill(), setpgid(), setsid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      SETPGRP(3POSIX)
