SIGISMEMBER(3POSIX)        POSIX Programmer's Manual       SIGISMEMBER(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       sigismember — test for a signal in a signal set

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       int sigismember(const sigset_t *set, int signo);

DESCRIPTION
       The sigismember() function shall test whether the signal  specified  by
       signo is a member of the set pointed to by set.

       Applications  should call either sigemptyset() or sigfillset() at least
       once for each object of type sigset_t prior to any other  use  of  that
       object.  If such an object is not initialized in this way, but is none‐
       theless supplied as an argument to  any  of  pthread_sigmask(),  sigac‐
       tion(), sigaddset(), sigdelset(), sigismember(), sigpending(), sigproc‐
       mask(), sigsuspend(), sigtimedwait(), sigwait(), or sigwaitinfo(),  the
       results are undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, sigismember() shall return 1 if the speci‐
       fied signal is a member of the specified set, or 0 if it is not. Other‐
       wise, it shall return -1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The sigismember() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The signo argument is not a valid signal number, or is an unsup‐
              ported signal number.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section   2.4,   Signal   Concepts,   pthread_sigmask(),   sigaction(),
       sigaddset(),  sigdelset(),  sigfillset(),  sigemptyset(), sigpending(),
       sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <signal.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                  SIGISMEMBER(3POSIX)
