SIGLONGJMP(3POSIX)         POSIX Programmer's Manual        SIGLONGJMP(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       siglongjmp — non-local goto with signal handling

SYNOPSIS
       #include <setjmp.h>

       void siglongjmp(sigjmp_buf env, int val);

DESCRIPTION
       The siglongjmp() function shall be equivalent to  the  longjmp()  func‐
       tion, except as follows:

        *  References to setjmp() shall be equivalent to sigsetjmp().

        *  The  siglongjmp()  function  shall restore the saved signal mask if
           and only  if  the  env  argument  was  initialized  by  a  call  to
           sigsetjmp() with a non-zero savemask argument.

RETURN VALUE
       After siglongjmp() is completed, program execution shall continue as if
       the corresponding invocation of sigsetjmp() had just returned the value
       specified   by   val.    The  siglongjmp()  function  shall  not  cause
       sigsetjmp() to return 0; if val is  0,  sigsetjmp()  shall  return  the
       value 1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The  distinction  between setjmp() or longjmp() and sigsetjmp() or sig‐
       longjmp() is only significant for programs which use sigaction(),  sig‐
       procmask(), or sigsuspend().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       longjmp(), pthread_sigmask(), setjmp(), sigsetjmp(), sigsuspend()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <setjmp.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                   SIGLONGJMP(3POSIX)
