STRIP(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             STRIP(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       strip — remove unnecessary information from strippable files  (DEVELOP‐
       MENT)

SYNOPSIS
       strip file...

DESCRIPTION
       A  strippable  file  is defined as a relocatable, object, or executable
       file.  On XSI-conformant systems, a strippable file can also be an  ar‐
       chive of object or relocatable files.

       The  strip utility shall remove from strippable files named by the file
       operands any information the implementor deems unnecessary  for  execu‐
       tion of those files. The nature of that information is unspecified. The
       effect of strip on object and executable files shall be similar to  the
       use  of  the -s option to c99 or fort77.  The effect of strip on an ar‐
       chive of object files shall be similar to the use of the -s  option  to
       c99 or fort77 for each object file in the archive.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A pathname referring to a strippable file.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       The  input  files shall be in the form of strippable files successfully
       produced by any compiler defined by this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 or pro‐
       duced  by  creating  or  updating an archive of such files using the ar
       utility.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment  variables  shall  affect  the  execution  of
       strip:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The strip utility shall produce strippable files of unspecified format.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Historically,  this  utility  has  been used to remove the symbol table
       from a strippable file. It was included since  it  is  known  that  the
       amount  of  symbolic  information  can amount to several megabytes; the
       ability to remove it in a portable manner was deemed  important,  espe‐
       cially for smaller systems.

       The  behavior of strip on object and executable files is said to be the
       same as the -s option to a compiler. While the  end  result  is  essen‐
       tially the same, it is not required to be identical.

       XSI-conformant systems support use of strip on archive files containing
       object files or relocatable files.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ar, c99, fort77

       The Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  8,  Environment
       Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        STRIP(1POSIX)