TCFLUSH(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           TCFLUSH(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcflush — flush non-transmitted output data, non-read  input  data,  or
       both

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcflush(int fildes, int queue_selector);

DESCRIPTION
       Upon successful completion, tcflush() shall discard data written to the
       object referred to by fildes (an open file descriptor associated with a
       terminal) but not transmitted, or data received but not read, depending
       on the value of queue_selector:

        *  If queue_selector is TCIFLUSH, it shall flush data received but not
           read.

        *  If  queue_selector is TCOFLUSH, it shall flush data written but not
           transmitted.

        *  If queue_selector is TCIOFLUSH, it shall flush both  data  received
           but not read and data written but not transmitted.

       Attempts  to  use tcflush() from a process which is a member of a back‐
       ground process group on a fildes associated with its controlling termi‐
       nal  shall cause the process group to be sent a SIGTTOU signal.  If the
       calling thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process  is  ignoring
       SIGTTOU signals, the process shall be allowed to perform the operation,
       and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, -1 shall be
       returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The tcflush() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The queue_selector argument is not a supported value.

       EIO    The  process group of the writing process is orphaned, the call‐
              ing thread is not blocking SIGTTOU, and the process is  not  ig‐
              noring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tcdrain()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 11, General Termi‐
       nal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      TCFLUSH(3POSIX)
