TCSENDBREAK(3POSIX)        POSIX Programmer's Manual       TCSENDBREAK(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcsendbreak — send a break for a specific duration

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int tcsendbreak(int fildes, int duration);

DESCRIPTION
       If the terminal is using asynchronous serial data transmission, tcsend‐
       break()  shall cause transmission of a continuous stream of zero-valued
       bits for a specific duration. If duration is 0, it shall  cause  trans‐
       mission  of  zero-valued  bits  for at least 0.25 seconds, and not more
       than 0.5 seconds. If duration is not 0, it shall send zero-valued  bits
       for an implementation-defined period of time.

       The fildes argument is an open file descriptor associated with a termi‐
       nal.

       If the terminal is not using asynchronous serial data transmission,  it
       is  implementation-defined whether tcsendbreak() sends data to generate
       a break condition or returns without taking any action.

       Attempts to use tcsendbreak() from a process which is  a  member  of  a
       background  process  group  on a fildes associated with its controlling
       terminal shall cause the process group to be sent a SIGTTOU signal.  If
       the calling thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is ignor‐
       ing SIGTTOU signals, the process shall be allowed to perform the opera‐
       tion, and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, -1 shall be
       returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The tcsendbreak() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EIO    The process group of the writing process is orphaned, the  call‐
              ing  thread  is not blocking SIGTTOU, and the process is not ig‐
              noring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The file associated with fildes is not a terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 11, General Termi‐
       nal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                  TCSENDBREAK(3POSIX)
