TCSETPGRP(3POSIX)          POSIX Programmer's Manual         TCSETPGRP(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcsetpgrp — set the foreground process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int tcsetpgrp(int fildes, pid_t pgid_id);

DESCRIPTION
       If the process has a controlling terminal, tcsetpgrp()  shall  set  the
       foreground  process  group  ID associated with the terminal to pgid_id.
       The application shall ensure that the file associated  with  fildes  is
       the  controlling  terminal  of  the calling process and the controlling
       terminal is currently  associated  with  the  session  of  the  calling
       process. The application shall ensure that the value of pgid_id matches
       a process group ID of a process in the  same  session  as  the  calling
       process.

       Attempts to use tcsetpgrp() from a process which is a member of a back‐
       ground process group on a fildes associated with its controlling termi‐
       nal  shall  cause the process group to be sent a SIGTTOU signal. If the
       calling thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process  is  ignoring
       SIGTTOU signals, the process shall be allowed to perform the operation,
       and no signal is sent.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, -1 shall be
       returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The tcsetpgrp() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL This  implementation  does  not support the value in the pgid_id
              argument.

       EIO    The process group of the writing process is orphaned, the  call‐
              ing  thread  is not blocking SIGTTOU, and the process is not ig‐
              noring SIGTTOU.

       ENOTTY The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the
              file  is not the controlling terminal, or the controlling termi‐
              nal is no longer associated with  the  session  of  the  calling
              process.

       EPERM  The value of pgid_id is a value supported by the implementation,
              but does not match the process group ID of a process in the same
              session as the calling process.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       tcgetpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                    TCSETPGRP(3POSIX)
