UNGETWC(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           UNGETWC(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ungetwc — push wide-character code back into the input stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>
       #include <wchar.h>

       wint_t ungetwc(wint_t wc, FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  ungetwc()  function  shall push the character corresponding to the
       wide-character code specified by wc back onto the input stream  pointed
       to  by  stream.  The pushed-back characters shall be returned by subse‐
       quent reads on that stream in the reverse order  of  their  pushing.  A
       successful intervening call (with the stream pointed to by stream) to a
       file-positioning function (fseek(), fseeko(), fsetpos(),  or  rewind())
       or  fflush()  shall  discard any pushed-back characters for the stream.
       The external storage corresponding to the stream is unchanged.

       At least one character of push-back shall be provided. If ungetwc()  is
       called too many times on the same stream without an intervening read or
       file-positioning operation on that stream, the operation may fail.

       If the value of wc equals that of the macro WEOF, the  operation  shall
       fail and the input stream shall be left unchanged.

       A  successful  call  to ungetwc() shall clear the end-of-file indicator
       for the stream. The value of the file-position indicator for the stream
       after  all pushed-back characters have been read, or discarded by call‐
       ing fseek(), fseeko(), fsetpos(), or rewind() (but not fflush()), shall
       be the same as it was before the characters were pushed back. The file-
       position indicator is decremented (by one or more) by  each  successful
       call  to  ungetwc(); if its value was 0 before a call, its value is un‐
       specified after the call.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, ungetwc() shall return  the  wide-character
       code  corresponding  to  the pushed-back character. Otherwise, it shall
       return WEOF.

ERRORS
       The ungetwc() function may fail if:

       EILSEQ An invalid character sequence is detected, or  a  wide-character
              code does not correspond to a valid character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section   2.5,   Standard  I/O  Streams,  fseek(),  fsetpos(),  read(),
       rewind(), setbuf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      UNGETWC(3POSIX)
