WMEMCHR(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           WMEMCHR(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wmemchr — find a wide character in memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *wmemchr(const wchar_t *ws, wchar_t wc, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  wmemchr()  function shall locate the first occurrence of wc in the
       initial n wide characters of the object pointed to by ws.   This  func‐
       tion  shall  not  be affected by locale and all wchar_t values shall be
       treated identically. The null wide character  and  wchar_t  values  not
       corresponding to valid characters shall not be treated specially.

       If  n  is zero, the application shall ensure that ws is a valid pointer
       and the function behaves as if no valid occurrence of wc is found.

RETURN VALUE
       The wmemchr() function shall return a pointer to the located wide char‐
       acter,  or  a  null pointer if the wide character does not occur in the
       object.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wmemcmp(), wmemcpy(), wmemmove(), wmemset()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      WMEMCHR(3POSIX)
