WMEMMOVE(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          WMEMMOVE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wmemmove — copy wide characters in memory with overlapping areas

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       wchar_t *wmemmove(wchar_t *ws1, const wchar_t *ws2, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  wmemmove()  function  shall copy n wide characters from the object
       pointed to by ws2 to the object pointed to by ws1.  Copying shall  take
       place as if the n wide characters from the object pointed to by ws2 are
       first copied into a temporary array of n wide characters that does  not
       overlap the objects pointed to by ws1 or ws2, and then the n wide char‐
       acters from the temporary array are copied into the object  pointed  to
       by ws1.

       This  function  shall  not be affected by locale and all wchar_t values
       shall be treated identically. The null wide character and wchar_t  val‐
       ues  not  corresponding  to  valid characters shall not be treated spe‐
       cially.

       If n is zero, the application shall ensure that ws1 and ws2  are  valid
       pointers, and the function shall copy zero wide characters.

RETURN VALUE
       The wmemmove() function shall return the value of ws1.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       wmemchr(), wmemcmp(), wmemcpy(), wmemset()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     WMEMMOVE(3POSIX)
