xfsinvutil(8)               System Manager's Manual              xfsinvutil(8)

NAME
       xfsinvutil - xfsdump inventory database checking and pruning utility

SYNOPSIS
       xfsinvutil [-F|-i] [-m media_label] -M mount_point mm/dd/yyyy
       xfsinvutil [-F|-i] [-m media_label] -u UUID mm/dd/yyyy
       xfsinvutil [-F] -s SESSION_ID
       xfsinvutil -i
       xfsinvutil -C

DESCRIPTION
       xfsdump  maintains  an online dump inventory in /var/lib/xfsdump/inven‐
       tory.  The -I option of xfsdump displays the inventory contents hierar‐
       chically.   The  levels of the hierarchy are: filesystem, dump session,
       stream, and media file.

       xfsinvutil is a utility to check this inventory  database  for  consis‐
       tency,  to  remove  entries  of dump sessions which may no longer be of
       relevance, and to browse the contents of the inventory.

       The following command line options are available:

       -F   Don't prompt the operator.  When xfsinvutil encounters a  matching
            dump  session,  xfsinvutil will normally ask the operator for per‐
            mission to delete the entry. With this option the deletion is per‐
            formed, no questions asked.

       -i   Interactive  mode.   Causes  xfsinvutil to run in a mode that will
            allow the operator to browse and modify the contents of the inven‐
            tory.  Please refer to the Interactive Mode section below for more
            information.

       -M mount_point mm/dd/yyyy
            Prunes dump sessions identified by the  given  mount  point  which
            were  created prior to the specified date. Optionally -m may be be
            specified to further limit the matching dump sessions by media la‐
            bel.   xfsinvutil will prompt the operator prior to pruning a dump
            session unless the -F or -i options are given.

       -u UUID mm/dd/yyyy
            Like -M, except the matching filesystem  is  specified  using  its
            universally unique identifier (UUID) instead of its mount point.

       -m media_label
            If specified, only sessions with at least one media file whose la‐
            bel matches this value will be eligible  for  pruning.   This  re‐
            striction  is  in addition to those imposed by the date and the -M
            or -u options.  This option allows the pruning  of  all  inventory
            references  to media which may have been overwritten or lost. Note
            that this option does not apply to sessions with no media files.

       -s SESSION_ID
            Prunes the dump session identified by the given session id.   xfs‐
            invutil  will  prompt the operator prior to pruning a dump session
            unless the -F option is given.

       -C   With this option, xfsinvutil performs consistency checks  for  all
            entries  in  the inventory database.  It fixes any problems found.
            If no consistent entries are found , the  corresponding  inventory
            database file is removed.

   Interactive Mode
       When  run  with -i, xfsinvutil will present the operator with a hierar‐
       chical representation of the xfsdump inventory.  In this mode, the  op‐
       erator can use the arrow keys (or the h j k l keys) to navigate the in‐
       ventory and also use the following keys and functionality:

       +    Expand a branch of the tree.

       -    Collapse a branch of the tree.

       *    Fully expand a branch of the tree.

       %    Fully collapse a branch of the tree.

       h    Move selection to the parent entry.

       l    Move selection to the child entry.

       j    Move selection to next entry.

       k    Move selection to previous entry.

       d    Mark the current record, and all sub-records, to be deleted.

       u    Clear the  current  record  and  all  parent  records  from  being
            deleted.

       i    Import another xfsdump inventory.

       ?    Show help window.

       x    Commit any changes made to the inventory, and exit the program.

       q    Exit the program without committing any changes to the inventory.

       Inventories  from other hosts can be imported to create a larger common
       inventory.  It is recommended that the contents of /var/lib/xfsdump/in‐
       ventory  on  the  remote  host be copied to a temporary local directory
       prior to running xfsinvutil.  When xfsinvutil  is  run  in  interactive
       mode,  and  the  operator hits i, they will be prompted for the path to
       the inventory to be imported.  xfsinvutil will then add the contents of
       the  imported  inventory  to  the  main window, and all entries will be
       marked as imported.  The operator can then delete any of these  entries
       that  are  not  to be imported.  When the operator commits the changes,
       xfsinvutil will import any entries which were not  marked  as  deleted.
       Deleted entries are not actually deleted from the original imported in‐
       ventory.

NOTES
   Inventory
       Each dump session updates an inventory database in /var/lib/xfsdump/in‐
       ventory.  xfsdump uses the inventory to determine the base of incremen‐
       tal and resumed dumps.

       This database can be displayed by invoking xfsdump with the -I  option.
       The display uses tabbed indentation to present the inventory hierarchi‐
       cally.  The first level is filesystem.  The second  level  is  session.
       The  third  level  is  media  stream (currently only one stream is sup‐
       ported).  The fourth level lists the media files sequentially composing
       the stream.

FILES
       /var/lib/xfsdump/inventory
                                dump inventory database

SEE ALSO
       xfsdump(8), xfsrestore(8).

                                                                 xfsinvutil(8)
