XORGFOUNDATION(7)      Miscellaneous Information Manual      XORGFOUNDATION(7)

NAME
       XOrgFoundation - X.Org Foundation information

SYNOPSIS
       Release  6.7  and  later of X Version 11 is brought to you by the X.Org
       Foundation.

DESCRIPTION
       The X.Org Foundation is an independent, not-for-profit 501(c)(3)  char-
       ity  corporation.   It was formed in 2004 as the successor to the X.Org
       Group at The Open Group. The purpose of the X.Org Foundation is to fos-
       ter the development, evolution, and maintenance of the X Window System,
       a comprehensive set  of  vendor-neutral,  system-architecture  neutral,
       network-transparent  windowing and user interface standards. Membership
       in the X.Org Foundation is free and open to anyone. The  X.Org  Founda-
       tion  hosts  a  public  git  repository of the source code on freedesk-
       top.org.

       The X Window System was created in the mid-1980s at  the  Massachusetts
       Institute  of  Technology.  In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded consor-
       tium to provide the technical and administrative  leadership  necessary
       to  support  further  development of the X Window System.  In 1992, MIT
       and the membership decided it was in their best interests to  move  the
       consortium  out of MIT and create an independent, stand-alone organiza-
       tion.  All rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to X Con-
       sortium,  Inc.  on  January 1, 1994. On December 31, 1996 the X Consor-
       tium, Inc. closed its doors and all rights to the X Window System  were
       assigned  to  The  Open  Group (then known as the Open Software Founda-
       tion).

ADDRESSES
       The X.Org Foundation's web site is http://www.x.org/

       The X.Org Foundation's public ftp site is ftp://ftp.x.org/

       Information about the X.Org Foundation git repository is on  the  X.Org
       web site at http://www.x.org/wiki/Development/git

X Version 11                    xorg-docs 1.7.1              XORGFOUNDATION(7)
