Xpmtoppm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Xpmtoppm User Manual(1)

NAME
       xpmtoppm - convert an X11 pixmap to a PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       xpmtoppm

       [--alphaout={alpha-filename,-}] [-verbose]

       [xpmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       xpbtoppm reads an X11 pixmap (XPM version 1 or 3) as input and produces
       a PPM image as output.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), xpmtoppm recognizes the
       following command line options:

       --alphaout=alpha-filename
              xpmtoppm creates a PBM file containing the transparency mask for
              the  image.  If the input image doesn't contain transparency in‐
              formation, the alpha-filename file contains all  white  (opaque)
              transparency  values.  If you don't specify --alphaout, xpmtoppm
              does not generate a transparency file, and if  the  input  image
              has transparency information, xpmtoppm simply discards it.

              If  you specify - as the filename, xpmtoppm writes the transpar‐
              ency output to Standard Output and discards the image.

              See pamcomp(1) for one way to use the transparency output file.

              xpmtoppm can't handle a line longer than 8K  characters  in  the
              XPM  input.  If an input line exceeds this limit, xpmtoppm quits
              with an error message to that effect.  Before Netpbm 10.30  (Oc‐
              tober 2005), the limit was 2K.

       --verbose
              xpmtoppm prints information about its processing on Standard Er‐
              ror.

LIMITATIONS
       xpmtoppm recognizes only a limited set of the features of  XPM  Version
       3; i.e. it rejects as invalid many valid XPM images.

       The  only place a comment block is valid is starting in Column 1 of the
       line immediately after "static char ...".

       In addition, ppmtoxpm properly recognizes any single-line comment  that
       begins in Column 1 in the color table part of the file.

       There must be for every pixel a default colorname for a color type vis‐
       ual.

       Before Netpbm 10.58 (March 2012), zero bytes per pixel causes the  pro‐
       gram to fail with a message about premature EOF on input.

SEE ALSO
       ppmtoxpm(1), pamcomp(1), ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

       Upgraded  to work with XPM version 3 by Arnaud Le Hors<lehors@mirsa.in‐
       ria.fr>, Tue Apr 9 1991.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/xpmtoppm.html

netpbm documentation           31 December 2011        Xpmtoppm User Manual(1)