Xsession.options(5)           File Formats Manual          Xsession.options(5)

NAME
       Xsession.options,  Xsession.options.d - configuration options for Xses-
       sion(5)

DESCRIPTION
       /etc/X11/Xsession.options and  /etc/X11/Xsession.options.d/*.conf  con-
       tain  options  that  determine  some of the behavior of the Xsession(5)
       Bourne shell (sh(1)) script.  See the Xsession(5) manpage  for  further
       information.

       These configuration files may contain comments, which begin with a hash
       mark ('#') and end at the next newline, just  like  comments  in  shell
       scripts.   The rest of the file consists of options which are expressed
       as words separated by hyphens, with only one option per line.   Options
       are  enabled  by  simply placing them in the file; they are disabled by
       prefixing the option name with 'no-'.

       Options  are   read   from   /etc/X11/Xsession.options,   followed   by
       /etc/X11/Xsession.options.d/*.conf  in  sorted order; later occurrences
       of an option (with or without the 'no-' prefix)  take  precedence  over
       earlier occurrences.

       Available options are:

       allow-failsafe
              If  the 'failsafe' argument is passed to the Xsession script, an
              emergency X session is invoked, consisting of only  an  x-termi-
              nal-emulator(1) in the upper-left hand corner of the screen.  No
              window manager is started.  If an x-terminal-emulator program is
              not available, the session exits immediately.

       allow-user-resources
              If  users  have a file called .Xresources in their home directo-
              ries, these resources will be merged  with  the  default  X  re-
              sources when they log in.

       allow-user-xsession
              If  users have an executable file called .xsession in their home
              directories, it can be used as the startup  program  for  the  X
              session  (see Xsession(5)).  If the file is present but not exe-
              cutable, it may still be used, but is assumed  to  be  a  Bourne
              shell script, and executed with sh(1).

       use-session-dbus
              If  the dbus package is installed, the session bus will be acti-
              vated at X session launch.

       use-ssh-agent
              If the ssh-agent(1) program is available and  no  agent  process
              appears  to be running already, the X session will be invoked by
              exec'ing ssh-agent with the  startup  command,  instead  of  the
              startup command directly.

       All  of  the  above options are enabled by default.  Additional options
       may be supported by the local administrator.  Xsession(5) describes how
       this is accomplished.

AUTHORS
       Stephen  Early,  Mark Eichin, and Branden Robinson developed Debian's X
       session handling scripts.  Branden Robinson wrote this manual page.

SEE ALSO
       Xsession(5), ssh-agent(1), x-terminal-emulator(1)

Debian Project                    2004-10-31               Xsession.options(5)
