AN(4) BSD Kernel Interfaces Manual AN(4)

NAME

an &mdash; Aironet
Communications 4500/4800 wireless network adapter driver

SYNOPSIS

To compile this driver into the
kernel, place the following lines in your kernel
configuration file:

device an

device wlan

Alternatively,
to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
following line in loader.conf(5):

if_an_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION

The an driver provides
support for Aironet Communications 4500 and 4800 wireless
network adapters and variants, including the following:

&bull;

Aironet Communications 4500 and
4800 series

&bull;

Cisco Aironet 340 and 350
series

&bull;

Xircom Wireless Ethernet
Adapter

Support for
these devices include the ISA, PCI and PCMCIA varieties. The
Aironet 4500 series adapters operate at 1 and 2Mbps while
the Aironet 4800 series and Cisco adapters can operate at 1,
2, 5.5 and 11Mbps. The ISA, PCI and PCMCIA devices are all
based on the same core PCMCIA modules and all have the same
programming interface, however unlike the Lucent
WaveLAN/IEEE cards, the ISA and PCI cards appear to the host
as normal ISA and PCI devices and do not require any PCCARD
support.

The PCMCIA
Aironet cards require PC Card support, including the kernel
pccard(4) driver. ISA cards can either be configured to use
ISA Plug and Play or to use a particular I/O address and IRQ
by properly setting the DIP switches on the board. (The
default switch setting is for Plug and Play.) The an
driver has Plug and Play support and will work in either
configuration, however when using a hard-wired I/O address
and IRQ, the driver configuration and the NIC&rsquo;s switch
settings must agree. PCI cards require no switch settings of
any kind and will be automatically probed and attached.

All host/device
interaction with the Aironet cards is via programmed I/O.
The Aironet devices support 802.11 and 802.3 frames, power
management, BSS (infrastructure) and IBSS (ad-hoc) operation
modes. The an driver encapsulates all IP and ARP
traffic as 802.11 frames, however it can receive either
802.11 or 802.3 frames. Transmit speed is selectable between
1Mbps, 2Mbps, 5.5Mbps, 11Mbps or "auto" (the NIC
automatically chooses the best speed).

By default, the
an driver configures the Aironet card for
infrastructure operation.

For more
information on configuring this device, see ifconfig(8).

DIAGNOSTICS

an%d: init failed 
The Aironet card failed to become ready after an
initialization command was issued.

an%d: failed
to allocate %d bytes on NIC  The driver was unable
to allocate memory for transmit frames in the NIC&rsquo;s
on-board RAM.

an%d: device
timeout  The Aironet card failed to generate an
interrupt to acknowledge a transmit command.

SEE ALSO

altq(4), arp(4), miibus(4),
netintro(4), wlan(4), ancontrol(8), ifconfig(8)

HISTORY

The an device driver
first appeared in FreeBSD 4.0.

AUTHORS

The an driver was written
by Bill Paul wpaul [AT] ee.edu>.

BSD
July 16, 2005 BSD