ATOL(3POSIX)               POSIX Programmer's Manual              ATOL(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       atol, atoll — convert a string to a long integer

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       long atol(const char *nptr);
       long long atoll(const char *nptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       Except as noted below, the call atol(nptr) shall be equivalent to:

           strtol(nptr, (char **)NULL, 10)

       Except as noted below, the call to atoll(nptr) shall be equivalent to:

           strtoll(nptr, (char **)NULL, 10)

       The  handling of errors may differ. If the value cannot be represented,
       the behavior is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       These functions shall return the converted value if the  value  can  be
       represented.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If the number is not known to be in range, strtol() or strtoll() should
       be used because atol() and atoll() are not required to perform any  er‐
       ror checking.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strtol()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                         ATOL(3POSIX)
