NAME

ax25d.conf -
ax25d configuration file.

DESCRIPTION

Ax25d.conf
controls the functioning of ax25d. Its purpose is to
specify on which ports to listen on, which applications are
available, and to whom they are available to. The
configuration file is common to both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose
and their is similarity between the two parts of the
file.

The general
layout for an entry for a given port is as follows:

interface
control 
callsign entry 1 
. 
. 
callsign entry n

The
interface control line determines which port and
callsigns apply to the following callsign entry
lines, until the next interface control is read.
There are four different variants of the interface
control line:

1. [AX.25 Port
Name] 
2. [Callsign VIA AX.25 Port Name] 
3.  
4. {Callsign VIA Rose Port Name}

Version 1
allows the following callsign entry lines to listen
on the AX.25 port specified by the AX.25 port name using the
default callsign of that AX.25 port.

Version 2
allows the following callsign entry lines to listen
on the AX.25 port specified by the AX.25 port name using the
callsign specified instead of the default callsign of that
AX.25 port. Specifying a * for the AX.25 port name allows
the following callsign entries to be valid for all
the operating AX.25 ports using the callsign specified. VIA
can be abbreviated to just V. If the callsign has an
asterisk appended to it then the system will be listening on
the port with the callsign, but as a pseudo-digipeater
instead of being the normal destination callsign.

Version 3
allows the following callsign entry lines to listen
on the NET/ROM port specified by the NET/ROM port name using
the default callsign of that NET/ROM port.

Version 4
allows the following callsign entry lines to listen
on the Rose port using the specified Rose port name using
the callsign specified as the service access point (SAP). A
* may be specified for a callsign to allow matching to any
incoming Call Requests with any SAP.

The callsign
entry lines have a similar layout for both AX.25,
NET/ROM and Rose, the layout is:

peer window t1
t2 t3 idle n2 mode uid exec args...

All values must
be entered for all entries even when they are not used (ie
window for NET/ROM, just enter a * instead), The meanings of
each of the fields is given below. All timings apart from
the idle value are given in seconds, the idle values is
given in minutes.

peer

This specifies the callsign of the remote end of the
connection that should have the following parameters and
executable set up for them. The syntax of the peer argument
is explained below.

window

This sets the the value of the window size, if a value
of * is entered in this field then the default value for the
port is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see
below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is
used. This entry is used by AX.25 but not by NET/ROM or
Rose. 

t1

This sets the the value of the T1 timer, if a value of *
is entered in this field then the default value for the port
is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see below)
or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not by
Rose. 

t2

This sets the the value of the T2 timer, if a value of *
is entered in this field then the default value for the port
is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see below)
or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not by
Rose. 

t3

This sets the the value of the T3 timer, if a value of *
is entered in this field then the default value for the port
is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see below)
or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by AX.25 but not by NET/ROM or Rose.

idle

This sets the the value of the idle timer, if a value of
* is entered in this field then the default value for the
port is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see
below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is
used. 

n2

This sets the the value of the N2 counter, if a value of
* is entered in this field then the default value for the
port is taken from the &ldquo;parameters&rdquo; entry (see
below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is
used. This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not
by Rose.

mode

This is a set of flags that control the various
properties associated with the incoming connection. The
flags are single letters, may be in either upper or lower
case, and there may not be any spaces between them. If no
flags are to be specified either a 0, - or a * must be
entered instead. The valid mode flag letters are:

D

Do not allow connections that
have passed via any digipeaters. AX.25 only.

L

Do not allow this station to connect, they are Locked
out. 

N

Check that the NET/ROM neighbour is allowed, currently
unused. 

Q

Do not make an entry into the log file for this
connection. 

V

Validate the callsign of the incoming connection,
currently unused.

uid

This is the
userid that the following command should run under when
executing.

exec

This is the executable that
should be executed when an incoming connection matches the
criteria of both the interface control and the
callsign entry .

args...

These are the optional arguments that are passed to the
executable. All of the arguments are passed literally apart
from the following:

%d

The name of the port that the
connection is on.

%U

The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper
case without the SSID.

%u

The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower
case without the SSID.

%S

The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper
case with the SSID.

%s

The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower
case with the SSID.

%P

The nodename of the remote station in upper case without
the SSID. This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under
AX.25 a % is substituted instead.

%p

The nodename of the remote station in lower case without
the SSID. This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under
AX.25 a % is substituted instead.

%R

The nodename of the remote station in upper case with
the SSID. This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under
AX.25 a % is substituted instead.

%r

The nodename of the remote station in lower case with
the SSID. This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under
AX.25 a % is substituted instead.

%%

A %.

The peer
argument is dependent upon whether AX.25, NET/ROM or Rose is
being used. There are five formats of this argument:

1. default 
2. parameters 
3. callsign 
4. callsign@node 
5. @node

The first
version is used by AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose to specify that
all callsigns on a given port are to be matched. The default
line is usually the last of the callsign entry lines,
so that more specific entries may have the chance to be
matched first.

The second
version is not a callsign entry that is used by any
incoming connections. It is a means to specify default
values for parameters such as Window, T1, T2, T3, Idle and
N2. It is used for both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose.

The third
version is used by both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose to specify
the callsign of the remote station to match the callsign
entry line. If no SSID is specified then the callsign
will be matched with any that has the same callsign and any
SSID. Specifying an SSID causes the callsign to be matched
exactly. In the case of NET/ROM and Rose this entry does not
specify which node the originating callsign comes from.

The fourth
version is used by NET/ROM and Rose to specify the callsign
of the remote station and the remote node to match the
callsign entry line. If no SSID is specified in the
callsign section then the callsign will be matched with any
that has the same callsign and any SSID. Specifying an SSID
causes the callsign to be matched exactly.

The fifth
version is used by NET/ROM and Rose to specify only the
address of the remote node to match the callsign
entry line. This entry will mean that all remote users
at the given node will match the entry.

Comments may be
embedded in the configuration file by placing a # in the
first column.

ax25d can now
honour AX.25 TCP/IP mode-VC connections in a special way.
Therefore, a new port specific option
"parameters_extAX25" is available, with the
following options, which are separated by space. 
parameters_extAX25

VC-debug 
VC-reject-login|VC-wait-login|VC-login-ok 
VC-disc-on-linkfailure-msg, VC-send-failure-msg,
VC-log-connections 
Recommended settings in ax25d.conf: 
parameters_extAX25 VC-wait-login VC-disc-on-linkfailure-msg
VC-log-connections 
or 
parameters_extAX25 VC-reject-login VC-send-failure-msg
VC-log-connections

FILES

/etc/ax25/ax25d.conf

SEE ALSO

ax25(4),
ax25wrapper(8), netrom(4), rose(4),
axports(5), nrports(5), rsports(5),
ax25d(8).