BG(1POSIX)                 POSIX Programmer's Manual                BG(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       bg — run jobs in the background

SYNOPSIS
       bg [job_id...]

DESCRIPTION
       If job control is enabled (see the description of set -m), the bg util‐
       ity  shall resume suspended jobs from the current environment (see Sec‐
       tion 2.12, Shell Execution Environment) by running them  as  background
       jobs.  If  the  job specified by job_id is already a running background
       job, the bg utility shall have no effect and shall exit successfully.

       Using bg to place a job into the background shall cause its process  ID
       to  become  ``known in the current shell execution environment'', as if
       it had been started as an asynchronous list; see Section 2.9.3.1, Exam‐
       ples.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       job_id    Specify  the  job  to  be  resumed as a background job. If no
                 job_id operand is given,  the  most  recently  suspended  job
                 shall  be used. The format of job_id is described in the Base
                 Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 3.204,  Job  Con‐
                 trol Job ID.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of bg:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The output of bg shall consist of a line in the format:

           "[%d] %s\n", <job-number>, <command>

       where the fields are as follows:

       <job-number>
                 A  number  that  can be used to identify the job to the wait,
                 fg, and kill utilities. Using these utilities, the job can be
                 identified by prefixing the job number with '%'.

       <command> The associated command that was given to the shell.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       If job control is disabled, the bg utility shall exit with an error and
       no job shall be placed in the background.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       A job is generally suspended by typing the SUSP character  (<control>‐Z
       on  most  systems);  see  the  Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017,
       Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface.  At that point, bg can put  the
       job into the background. This is most effective when the job is expect‐
       ing no terminal input and its output has been redirected to  non-termi‐
       nal  files. A background job can be forced to stop when it has terminal
       output by issuing the command:

           stty tostop

       A background job can be stopped with the command:

           kill -s stop job ID

       The bg utility does not work as expected when it is  operating  in  its
       own  utility execution environment because that environment has no sus‐
       pended jobs. In the following examples:

           ... | xargs bg
           (bg)

       each bg operates in a different environment and does not share its par‐
       ent shell's understanding of jobs. For this reason, bg is generally im‐
       plemented as a shell regular built-in.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The extensions to the shell specified in this  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       have  mostly  been based on features provided by the KornShell. The job
       control features provided by bg, fg, and jobs are also based on the Ko‐
       rnShell.  The standard developers examined the characteristics of the C
       shell versions of these utilities and found that differences exist. De‐
       spite  widespread  use  of the C shell, the KornShell versions were se‐
       lected for this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 to maintain a degree of  unifor‐
       mity with the rest of the KornShell features selected (such as the very
       popular command line editing features).

       The bg utility is expected to wrap its output if the output exceeds the
       number of display columns.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.9.3.1, Examples, fg, kill, jobs, wait

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 3.204, Job Control
       Job ID, Chapter 8, Environment Variables, Chapter 11, General  Terminal
       Interface

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                           BG(1POSIX)
