CATGETS(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           CATGETS(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       catgets — read a program message

SYNOPSIS
       #include <nl_types.h>

       char *catgets(nl_catd catd, int set_id, int msg_id, const char *s);

DESCRIPTION
       The catgets() function shall attempt to read  message  msg_id,  in  set
       set_id, from the message catalog identified by catd.  The catd argument
       is a message catalog  descriptor  returned  from  an  earlier  call  to
       catopen().   The  results are undefined if catd is not a value returned
       by catopen() for a message catalog still open in the process. The s ar‐
       gument  points  to  a default message string which shall be returned by
       catgets() if it cannot retrieve the identified message.

       The catgets() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       If the identified message is retrieved  successfully,  catgets()  shall
       return  a pointer to an internal buffer area containing the null-termi‐
       nated message string. If the call is unsuccessful  for  any  reason,  s
       shall be returned and errno shall be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The catgets() function shall fail if:

       EINTR  The  read  operation was terminated due to the receipt of a sig‐
              nal, and no data was transferred.

       ENOMSG The message identified by set_id and msg_id is not in  the  mes‐
              sage catalog.

       The catgets() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The catd argument is not a valid message catalog descriptor open
              for reading.

       EBADMSG
              The message identified by set_id and  msg_id  in  the  specified
              message  catalog did not satisfy implementation-defined security
              criteria.

       EINVAL The message catalog identified by catd is corrupted.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       catclose(), catopen()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <nl_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      CATGETS(3POSIX)
