CFSETOSPEED(3POSIX)        POSIX Programmer's Manual       CFSETOSPEED(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cfsetospeed — set output baud rate

SYNOPSIS
       #include <termios.h>

       int cfsetospeed(struct termios *termios_p, speed_t speed);

DESCRIPTION
       The cfsetospeed() function shall set the output baud rate stored in the
       structure pointed to by termios_p to speed.

       There  shall be no effect on the baud rates set in the hardware until a
       subsequent successful call to tcsetattr() with the same termios  struc‐
       ture.  Similarly,  errors resulting from attempts to set baud rates not
       supported by the terminal device need not be detected until  the  tcse‐
       tattr() function is called.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, cfsetospeed() shall return 0; otherwise, it
       shall return -1 and errno may be set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The cfsetospeed() function may fail if:

       EINVAL The speed value is not a valid baud rate.

       EINVAL The value of speed is outside the range of possible speed values
              as specified in <termios.h>.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to cfgetispeed().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       cfgetispeed(), cfgetospeed(), cfsetispeed(), tcsetattr()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 11, General Termi‐
       nal Interface, <termios.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                  CFSETOSPEED(3POSIX)
