NAME

conserver.passwd
- user access information for conserver(8)

SYNOPSIS

username:password

DESCRIPTION

The
conserver.passwd file is the user authentication and
authorization file for conserver(8). Upon each
incoming client connection, conserver opens and reads
the conserver.passwd file, so edits to the file take
effect immediately. It reads only until the first
username match.

Blank lines and
comment lines (those beginning with a
’’#’’ and optional leading
whitespace) are ignored. Non-ignored lines beginning with
whitespace are considered continuations of the previous
line. This allows you to span one logical line over many
physical lines and insert comments wherever appropriate.

Each logical
line consists of two colon-separated fields. Leading and
trailing white space in each field is ignored. 
username

the login name of the
authorized user, or the string
’’*any*’’ to match any user.
This is compared against the name sent by the console
client, based either on the user’s identity or on the
-l option. Since conserver only uses the first
username match, a
’’*any*’’ entry will apply to
any user without an entry earlier in the file.

password

the encrypted password, or the
string ’’*passwd*’’ to
indicate that conserver should look up the
user’s password in the system passwd (or
shadow) database. If PAM support has been enabled
(--with-pam), PAM lookups will be done instead of
passwd (or shadow) lookups (you may need to
edit /etc/pam.conf or create /etc/pam.d/conserver). If this
field is empty, password checking is bypassed for this
user.

EXAMPLE

mary:r71mXjfALB5Ak

Mary uses the password specified
above; it does not matter whether she has a login on the
conserver host.

fred:*passwd*

Fred may connect only with his regular login password on
the conserver host.

bozo:*

Bozo is only allowed to access a console if his password
isn’t used (since it’s invalid) which means he
needs to come from a trusted host.

*any*:*passwd*

Anyone not listed above uses their regular login and
password. 

SEE ALSO

console(1),
conserver.cf(5), conserver(8)

BUGS

There is
currently no way provided by the conserver package to
generate the encrypted password strings besides copying them
from the system passwd database or running
crypt(3) via C or perl or some other language that
supports it.