NAME

control.ctl -
Specify handling of Usenet control messages

DESCRIPTION

The file
pathetc/control.ctl is used to determine what action
is taken when a control message is received. It is read by
controlchan, which is normally invoked as a channel
program by innd. When control.ctl is modified,
controlchan notices this automatically and reloads
it.

If a
control.ctl.local file exists in pathetc, it
is read by controlchan after control.ctl (the
resulting behaviour is as though the contents of
control.ctl.local were at the end of
control.ctl). This local file is formatted like
control.ctl and is intended to contain local
customization. It is also automatically reloaded when
modified.

Blank lines and
lines beginning with a number sign ("#") are
ignored. All other lines should consist of four fields
separated by colons:

:::

Lines are
matched in order and the last matching line in the file will
be used, except for checkgroups messages which are handled
differently (every matching line is used).

The first
field, , is the type of control message for
which this line is valid. It should either be the name of a
control message or the word "all" to indicate that
it applies to all control messages. Besides, the following
special types are understood: 
/encoding/

This type specifies the
encoding of newgroup and checkgroups control messages so
that new descriptions could be decoded the right way.

/encoding/:*:cn.*:gb18030

means that a
description for a newsgroup in the Chinese cn.* hierarchy
will be decoded as though it were encoded in GB18030, unless
a charset is specified in the control message (in such a
case, the charset mentioned in the message is used).
However, it is possible to override the mentioned charset if
"=force" is appended after the encoding. For
instance,

/encoding/:*:scout.forum.chinese:big5=force

means that the
description for scout.forum.chinese will always be decoded
as though it were encoded in Big5, no matter the charset of
the corresponding control message.

The default
value when no encoding is mentioned (or when the specified
encoding is unknown) is "CP1252".

The last
matching line for a given newsgroup name in
control.ctl will be used.

/localencoding/

When this type is used, the
line consist of only two fields. The default value when this
type does not appear in control.ctl (or when the
specified charset is unknown) is equivalent to:

/localencoding/:utf-8

It means that
new descriptions in the newsgroups file will be
written using UTF-8. And controlchan will try to read
existing descriptions, so as to see whether they should be
updated, as though they were encoded in UTF-8.

The last
matching line in control.ctl will be used.

/maxdocheckgroups/

This type specifies the maximum
number of changes that could be made at one time by a
checkgroups before bailing and mailing the changes to the
admin if no log file was specified. The default value is
"10".

/maxdocheckgroups/:*:*:10

/maxdocheckgroups/:*:fr.*:20

Such a
configuration means that a checkgroups containing 15 changes
for the French fr.* hierarchy (newgroups to add, remove or
change the status) will be automatically honoured whereas a
checkgroups containing 15 changes for france.* will only
have the required changes mailed or logged.

The last
matching line for a given newsgroup name in
control.ctl will be used.

The second
field, , is a shell-style pattern that matches
the e-mail address of the person posting the message (with
the address first converted to lowercase). The matching is
done with rules equivalent to those of the shell’s
case statement; see sh(1) for more details.

If the control
message is a newgroup or rmgroup, the third field,
, is a shell-style pattern matching the
newsgroup affected by the control message (especially
"?" matches exactly one character, "*"
matches zero or more characters and "|" permits
matching several patterns on the same line -- for
instance "comp.*|humanities.*" matches every
newsgroup whose name begins with "comp." or
"humanities."). If the control message is a
checkgroups, the third field is a shell-style pattern
matching the newsgroups that should be processed for
checking. If the control message is of any other type, the
third field is ignored.

The fourth
field, , specifies what action to take with
control messages that match this line. The following actions
are understood: 
doit

The action requested by the
control message should be performed. It means that the
change will be silently performed. For checkgroups messages,
depending on the value of /maxdocheckgroups/, the
shell commands that should be run may be mailed to the news
administrator (the argument to --with-news-master
given at configure time, "usenet" by default)
instead of being performed.

If you always
want notification of actions taken, use
"doit=mail" instead (see below).

doit=file

The action is performed as in
doit, and additionally a log entry is written to the
specified log file file. If file is the word
"mail", the log entry is mailed to the news
administrator instead. An empty string is equivalent to
/dev/null and says to log nothing.

If file
starts with a slash, it is taken as the absolute filename to
use for the log file. Otherwise, the filename is formed by
prepending pathlog and a slash, and appending
".log". In other words, an action of
"doit=newgroup" will log to
pathlog/newgroup.log.

drop

No action is taken and the
message is ignored. For checkgroups messages, it means that
the newsgroups mentioned will be considered as not existent
in the checkgroups for its subsequent process.

checkgroups:*:comp.*:doit

checkgroups:*:*binaries*:drop

will for
instance remove every newsgroup whose name contains
"binaries" in the comp.* hierarchy, even though
such groups are mentioned in the checkgroups. (In that
example, the removal is performed by the doit action
because drop does nothing by itself.)

verify-*

If the action starts with the
string "verify-", as in:

verify-news.announce.newgroups

then PGP
verification of the control message will be done and the
user ID of the key of the authenticated signer will be
checked against the expected identity defined by the rest of
the string ("news.announce.newgroups" in the above
example). This verification is done via pgpverify;
see pgpverify(1) for more details.

If no logging
is specified (with =file as mentioned below), logging
will be done the same as with doit as described
above.

verify-*=mail

PGP verification is done as for
the verify-* action described above, and notification
of successful newgroup and rmgroup control messages and the
output of checkgroups messages will be mailed to the news
administrator. (In the case of checkgroups messages, this
means that the shell script that should be run will be
mailed to the administrator. The subject of the mail will
contain information on whether the script has already been
run, depending on the value of
/maxdocheckgroups/.)

verify-*=file

PGP verification is done as for
the verify-* action described above, and a log entry
is written to the specified file as described in
doit=file above. (In the case of checkgroups
messages, this means that the shell script output of the
checkgroups message will be written to that file. The
initial line of the log will contain information on whether
the script has already been run, depending on the value of
/maxdocheckgroups/.)

log

A one-line log message is sent to standard error.
innd normally directs this to
pathlog/errlog. 

log=file

A log entry is written to the
specified log file, which is interpreted as in
doit=file described above.

mail

A mail message is sent to the
news administrator without taking any other action.

One of the
difference between a doit or verify action and
a mail action for a checkgroups control message lies
in what e-mail is sent; doit or verify will
mail the news administrator a shell script (which may have
already been run) to create, delete, or modify newsgroups to
match the checkgroups message, whereas mail will just
mail relevant lines of the checkgroups for manual processing
by the news administrator.

Use of the
verify action for processing newgroup, rmgroup and
checkgroups messages is STRONGLY recommended. Abuse of
control messages is rampant, and authentication via PGP
signature is currently the only reliable way to be sure that
a control message comes from who it claims to be from. Most
major hierarchies are now issuing PGP-authenticated control
messages.

In order to use
verify actions, the PGP key ring of the news user
must be populated with the PGP keys of the hierarchy
maintainers whose control messages you want to honour. For
more details on PGP-authenticated control messages and the
URL for downloading the PGP keys of major hierarchies, see
pgpverify(1).

Control
messages of type cancel are handled internally by
innd and cannot be affected by any of the mechanisms
described here.

EXAMPLES

With the
following three lines in control.ctl:

newgroup:*:*:drop

newgroup:group-admin [AT] isc.org:comp.*:verify-news.announce.newgroups

newgroup:kre [AT] munnari.au:aus.*:mail

a newgroup
coming from "group-admin [AT] isc.org" will be honoured
if it is for a newsgroup in the comp.* hierarchy and if it
has a valid signature corresponding to the PGP key with a
user ID of "news.announce.newgroups". If any
newgroup claiming to be from "kre [AT] munnari.au"
for a newsgroup in the aus.* hierarchy is received, it too
will be honoured. All other newgroup messages will be
ignored.

Besides, if a
control.ctl.local file exists and contains:

newgroup:*:comp.lang.*:drop

then a newgroup
control article for comp.lang.awk will not be honoured even
though it comes from "group-admin [AT] isc.org" with a
valid signature.

As for
checkgroups, suppose your news server contains these groups
for foo.*, all of them being unmoderated ("y"
status in the active file):

foo.bar1 
foo.bar2.first 
foo.bar2.second 
foo.bar2.third 
foo.bar3 
foo.bar3.first 
foo.bar3.second 
foo.bar5

and you receive
the following checkgroups by foo [AT] bar.com> for
foo.*:

foo.bar1 A
valid newsgroup. 
foo.bar3.first Only one newsgroup in foo.bar3.*. 
foo.bar4 A newsgroup you want. 
foo.bar5 A newsgroup you do not want. 
foo.bar5.first Another newsgroup you do not want.

with the
following control.ctl entries:

/maxdocheckgroups/:*:foo.*:2

checkgroups:foo [AT] bar.com:foo.*:verify-key-foo 
checkgroups:foo [AT] bar.com:foo.bar2.*:doit 
checkgroups:foo [AT] bar.com:foo.bar3.*:mail 
checkgroups:foo [AT] bar.com:foo.bar4|foo.bar4.*:doit 
checkgroups:foo [AT] bar.com:foo.bar5|foo.bar5.*:drop

Then, as
control.ctl is processed from bottom, here is what
happens:

1.

The newsgroups foo.bar5 and foo.bar5.first are marked as
unwanted. But nothing is done yet: other control.ctl
entries have to be processed with a real action and a set of
newsgroups containing foo.bar5 and foo.bar5.first.

2.

The newsgroup foo.bar4 is silently created on the news
server, with the description "A newsgroup you
want." added to the newsgroups file. In the
absence of encoding values (either in the checkgroups
message or in /encoding/ and /localencoding),
the default is to decode the sentence as CP1242 and
re-encode it as UTF-8.

If
"doit=mail" was used, a mail would be sent to the
news administrator to inform him that foo.bar4 was
successfully created.

3.

The newsgroup foo.bar3.second is
no longer present. A mail is sent to the news administrator
with a shell script to execute. When it is manually
executed, foo.bar3.second will be removed.

Note that the
descriptions are handled differently and have already been
updated without any manual intervention (foo.bar3.first now
has the description "Only one newsgroup in
foo.bar3.*." and foo.bar3.second no longer has a
description).

4.

The newsgroups foo.bar2.first,
foo.bar2.second and foo.bar2.third are no longer present.
However, as the maximum number of changes that could be made
at one time by a checkgroups before bailing and mailing the
changes to the news administrator is 2, these newsgroups are
not removed. A mail is sent with a shell script to manually
execute in order to remove these groups from the news
server. 

Note that their
descriptions are removed from the newsgroups file, as
well as any other possible descriptions for obsolete
newsgroups in foo.bar2.*.

5.

The remaining entry is executed
if the PGP verification of the checkgroups message is
successful. Otherwise, nothing is done (especially, foo.bar5
remains on the news server).

In case the PGP
signature is verified, foo.bar3 and foo.bar5 are removed
from the news server. This entry acts upon newsgroups marked
as dropped in its scope and newsgroups not already dealt
with by previous control.ctl entries (like foo.bar3
because only foo.bar3.* was previously checked).

Note that if
you had wanted to keep foo.bar3 or foo.bar5, you could have
added them to the localgroups file in
pathetc.

HISTORY

Written by Rich
$alz rsalz [AT] uunet.net> for InterNetNews. Rewritten
in POD by Russ Allbery eagle [AT] eyrie.org>.

SEE ALSO

controlchan(8),
inn.conf(5), innd(8), newsfeeds(5), newsgroups(5),
pgpverify(1), sh(1).