deb-src-rules(5)                  dpkg suite                  deb-src-rules(5)

NAME
       deb-src-rules - Debian source package rules file

SYNOPSIS
       debian/rules

DESCRIPTION
       This file contains the instructions necessary to build the binary
       packages from the source package.

       The debian/rules file is an executable Makefile, with a shebang that is
       usually set to "#!/usr/bin/make -f".

       It must support the following make targets:

       clean
           Clean up the source tree, by undoing any change done by any of the
           build and binary targets.  This target will be called with root
           privileges.

       build-indep
           Build architecture independent files required to build any
           architecture independent binary package.  If there are no
           architecture independent binary packages to generate, the target
           must still exist but do nothing.  This target must not require root
           privileges.

       build-arch
           Build architecture dependent files required to build any
           architecture dependent binary package.  If there are no
           architecture dependent binary packages to generate, the target must
           still exist but do nothing.  This target must not require root
           privileges.

       build
           Build architecture independent and dependent files, either by
           depending (at least transitively) on build-indep and/or build-arch
           or by inlining what those targets would do.  This target must not
           require root privileges.

       binary-indep
           Build architecture independent binary packages.  This target must
           depend (at least transitively) on either build-indep or build.
           This target will be called with root privileges.

       binary-arch
           Build architecture dependent binary packages.  This target must
           depend (at least transitively) on either build-arch or build.  This
           target will be called with root privileges.

       binary
           Build architecture independent and dependent binary packages,
           either by depending (at least transitively) on binary-indep and/or
           binary-arch or by inlining what those targets would do.  This
           target will be called with root privileges.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg-architecture(1), dpkg-vendor(1), dpkg-buildflags(1), dpkg-
       parsechangelog(1), dpkg-shlibdeps(1), dpkg-gencontrol(1), dpkg-deb(1),
       dpkg-distaddfile(1).

1.22.0                            2023-09-06                  deb-src-rules(5)
