NAME

deb822 - Debian
RFC822 control data format

DESCRIPTION

The package
management system manipulates data represented in a common
format, known as control data, stored in control
files. Control files are used for source packages,
binary packages and the .changes files which control
the installation of uploaded files (dpkg&rsquo;s
internal databases are in a similar format).

SYNTAX

A control file
consists of one or more paragraphs of fields (the paragraphs
are also sometimes referred to as stanzas). The paragraphs
are separated by empty lines. Parsers may accept lines
consisting solely of U+0020 SPACE and
U+0009 TAB as paragraph separators,
but control files should use empty lines. Some control files
allow only one paragraph; others allow several, in which
case each paragraph usually refers to a different package.
(For example, in source packages, the first paragraph refers
to the source package, and later paragraphs refer to binary
packages generated from the source.) The ordering of the
paragraphs in control files is significant.

Each paragraph
consists of a series of data fields. Each field consists of
the field name followed by a colon (U+003A
&rsquo;:&rsquo;), and then the data/value associated
with that field. The field name is composed of US-ASCII
characters excluding control characters, space, and colon
(i.e., characters in the ranges U+0021
&rsquo;!&rsquo; through U+0039
&rsquo;9&rsquo;, and U+003B &rsquo;;&rsquo;
through U+007E &rsquo;~&rsquo;, inclusive). Field
names must not begin with the comment character (U+0023
&rsquo;#&rsquo;), nor with the hyphen character
(U+002D &rsquo;-&rsquo;).

The field ends
at the end of the line or at the end of the last
continuation line (see below). Horizontal whitespace (U+0020
SPACE and U+0009
TAB ) may occur immediately before or
after the value and is ignored there; it is conventional to
put a single space after the colon. For example, a field
might be:

 Package: dpkg

the field name
is Package and the field value dpkg.

Empty field
values are only permitted in source package control files
(debian/control). Such fields are ignored.

A paragraph
must not contain more than one instance of a particular
field name.

There are three
types of fields:

simple

The field, including its value,
must be a single line. Folding of the field is not
permitted. This is the default field type if the definition
of the field does not specify a different type.

folded

The value of a folded field is
a logical line that may span several lines. The lines after
the first are called continuation lines and must start with
a U+0020 SPACE or a U+0009
TAB . Whitespace, including any
newlines, is not significant in the field values of folded
fields.

This folding
method is similar to RFC5322, allowing
control files that contain only one paragraph and no
multiline fields to be read by parsers written for
RFC5322.

multiline

The value of a multiline field
may comprise multiple continuation lines. The first line of
the value, the part on the same line as the field name,
often has special significance or may have to be empty.
Other lines are added following the same syntax as the
continuation lines of the folded fields. Whitespace,
including newlines, is significant in the values of
multiline fields.

Whitespace must
not appear inside names (of packages, architectures, files
or anything else) or version numbers, or between the
characters of multi-character version relationships.

The presence
and purpose of a field, and the syntax of its value may
differ between types of control files.

Field names are
not case-sensitive, but it is usual to capitalize the field
names using mixed case as shown below. Field values are
case-sensitive unless the description of the field says
otherwise.

Paragraph
separators (empty lines) and lines consisting only of U+0020
SPACE and U+0009
TAB , are not allowed within field
values or between fields. Empty lines in field values are
usually escaped by representing them by a U+0020
SPACE followed by a dot (U+002E
&rsquo;.&rsquo;).

Lines starting
with U+0023 &rsquo;#&rsquo;, without any preceding
whitespace are comments lines that are only permitted in
source package control files (debian/control) and in
deb-origin(5) files. These comment lines are ignored,
even between two continuation lines. They do not end logical
lines.

All control
files must be encoded in UTF-8.

SEE ALSO

RFC822
, RFC5322 .