DELTA(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             DELTA(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       delta — make a delta (change) to an SCCS file (DEVELOPMENT)

SYNOPSIS
       delta [-nps] [-g list] [-m mrlist] [-r SID] [-y[comment]] file...

DESCRIPTION
       The delta utility shall be used to permanently introduce into the named
       SCCS files changes that were made to the files retrieved by get (called
       the g-files, or generated files).

OPTIONS
       The delta utility shall conform  to  the  Base  Definitions  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017,  Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines, except that the
       -y option has an optional option-argument. This  optional  option-argu‐
       ment shall not be presented as a separate argument.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -r SID    Uniquely identify which delta is to be made to the SCCS file.
                 The use of this option shall be necessary only if two or more
                 outstanding  get  commands  for  editing (get -e) on the same
                 SCCS file were done by the same person (login name). The  SID
                 value  specified  with  the  -r  option can be either the SID
                 specified on the get command line or the SID to  be  made  as
                 reported by the get utility; see get.

       -s        Suppress  the report to standard output of the activity asso‐
                 ciated with each file.  See the STDOUT section.

       -n        Specify retention of the edited g-file (normally  removed  at
                 completion of delta processing).

       -g list   Specify a list (see get for the definition of list) of deltas
                 that shall be ignored when the file is accessed at the change
                 level (SID) created by this delta.

       -m mrlist Specify  a modification request (MR) number that the applica‐
                 tion shall supply as the reason for creating the  new  delta.
                 This  shall  be used if the SCCS file has the v flag set; see
                 admin.

                 If -m is not used and '-' is not specified as  a  file  argu‐
                 ment,  and  the  standard input is a terminal, the prompt de‐
                 scribed in the STDOUT section shall be  written  to  standard
                 output before the standard input is read; if the standard in‐
                 put is not a terminal, no prompt shall be issued.

                 MRs in a list shall be separated by <blank> characters or es‐
                 caped <newline> characters. An unescaped <newline> shall ter‐
                 minate the MR list. The escape character is <backslash>.

                 If the v flag has a value, it shall be taken to be  the  name
                 of  a  program which validates the correctness of the MR num‐
                 bers. If a non-zero exit status is returned from the MR  num‐
                 ber  validation  program,  the delta utility shall terminate.
                 (It is assumed that the MR numbers were not all valid.)

       -y[comment]
                 Describe the reason for making the delta. The  comment  shall
                 be an arbitrary group of lines that would meet the definition
                 of a text file. Implementations shall support  comments  from
                 zero  to  512  bytes  and  may  support longer values. A null
                 string (specified as either -y, -y"", or  in  response  to  a
                 prompt for a comment) shall be considered a valid comment.

                 If -y is not specified and '-' is not specified as a file ar‐
                 gument, and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt  de‐
                 scribed  in  the  STDOUT section shall be written to standard
                 output before the standard input is read; if the standard in‐
                 put  is  not  a  terminal,  no prompt shall be issued. An un‐
                 escaped <newline> shall terminate the comment text.  The  es‐
                 cape character is <backslash>.

                 The -y option shall be required if the file operand is speci‐
                 fied as '-'.

       -p        Write (to standard output) the SCCS file  differences  before
                 and after the delta is applied in diff format; see diff.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       file      A  pathname  of an existing SCCS file or a directory. If file
                 is a directory, the delta utility shall behave as though each
                 file  in the directory were specified as a named file, except
                 that non-SCCS files (last component of the pathname does  not
                 begin  with  s.)   and unreadable files shall be silently ig‐
                 nored.

                 If exactly one file operand appears, and it is '-', the stan‐
                 dard  input  shall  be  read; each line of the standard input
                 shall be taken to be the name of an  SCCS  file  to  be  pro‐
                 cessed. Non-SCCS files and unreadable files shall be silently
                 ignored.

STDIN
       The standard input shall be a text file  used  only  in  the  following
       cases:

        *  To read an mrlist or a comment (see the -m and -y options).

        *  A file operand shall be specified as '-'.  In this case, the -y op‐
           tion must be used to specify the comment, and if the SCCS file  has
           the  v  flag set, the -m option must also be used to specify the MR
           list.

INPUT FILES
       Input files shall be text files whose data is to  be  included  in  the
       SCCS  files.  If  the  first  character of any line of an input file is
       <SOH> in the POSIX locale, the results are unspecified.  If  this  file
       contains  more  than  99999  lines, the number of lines recorded in the
       header for this file shall be 99999 for this delta.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment  variables  shall  affect  the  execution  of
       delta:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to  multi-byte  characters  in  arguments  and  input
                 files).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to  standard  er‐
                 ror, and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

       TZ        Determine the timezone in which the time and date are written
                 in the SCCS file. If the TZ variable is unset or NULL, an un‐
                 specified system default timezone is used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       If SIGINT is caught, temporary files shall  be  cleaned  up  and  delta
       shall  exit  with  a  non-zero  exit code. The standard action shall be
       taken for all other signals; see Section 1.4, Utility  Description  De‐
       faults.

STDOUT
       The  standard  output  shall be used only for the following messages in
       the POSIX locale:

        *  Prompts (see the -m and -y options) in the following formats:

               "MRs? "

               "comments? "

           The MR prompt,  if  written,  shall  always  precede  the  comments
           prompt.

        *  A  report of each file's activities (unless the -s option is speci‐
           fied) in the following format:

               "%s\n%d inserted\n%d deleted\n%d unchanged\n", <New SID>,
                   <number of lines inserted>, <number of lines deleted>,
                   <number of lines unchanged>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       Any SCCS files updated shall be files of an unspecified format.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
   System Date and Time
       When a delta is added to an SCCS file, the system date and  time  shall
       be recorded for the new delta. If a get is performed using an SCCS file
       with a date recorded apparently in the future, the behavior is unspeci‐
       fied.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Problems  can arise if the system date and time have been modified (for
       example, put forward and then  back  again,  or  unsynchronized  clocks
       across  a  network)  and can also arise when different values of the TZ
       environment variable are used.

       Problems of a similar nature can also arise for the  operation  of  the
       get utility, which records the date and time in the file body.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 1.4, Utility Description Defaults, admin, diff, get, prs, rmdel

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        DELTA(1POSIX)
