NAME

dhcp &minus;
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

DESCRIPTION

Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol (DHCP) enables host systems in
a TCP/IP network to be configured automatically for
the network as they boot. DHCP uses a client/server
mechanism: servers store configuration information for
clients, and provide that information upon a client&rsquo;s
request. The information can include the client&rsquo;s
IP address and information about network services
available to the client.

This manual
page provides a brief summary of the Solaris DHCP
implementation.

Solaris DHCP
Client 
The Solaris DHCP client is implemented as background daemon,
dhcpagent(1M). This daemon is started automatically
during bootup if there exists at least one
dhcp.interface file in /etc. Only
interfaces with a corresponding
/etc/dhcp.interface file are automatically
configured during boot. Network parameters needed for system
configuration during bootup are extracted from the
information recieved by the daemon through the use of the
dhcpinfo(1) command. The daemon&rsquo;s default
behavior can be altered by changing the tunables in the
/etc/default/dhcpagent file. The daemon is controlled
by the ifconfig(1M) utility. Check the status of the
daemon using the netstat(1M) and ifconfig(1M)
commands.

Solaris DHCP
Server 
The Solaris DHCP server is implemented as a
background daemon, in.dhcpd(1M). This daemon can
deliver network configuration information to either
BOOTP or DHCP clients. The Solaris DHCP
service can be managed using the dhcpmgr(1M)
GUI or the command line utilities
dhcpconfig(1M), dhtadm(1M), and
pntadm(1M).

DHCP
Configuration Tables 
The Solaris DHCP server stores client configuration
information in the following two types of tables:

dhcptab tables

Contain macros and options
(also known as symbols), used to construct a package of
configuration information to send to each DHCP
client. There exists only one dhcptab for the
DHCP service. The dhcptab(4) can be viewed and
modified using the dhtadm(1M) command or
dhcpmgr(1M) graphical utility. See dhcptab(4)
for more information about the syntax of dhcptab
records. See dhcp_inittab(4) for more information
about the DHCP options and symbols.

DHCP network tables

DHCP network tables,
which contain mappings of client IDs to IP
addresses and parameters associated with those addresses.
Network tables are named with the IP address of the
network, and can be created, viewed, and modified using the
pntadm command or dhcpmgr graphical utility.
See dhcp_network(4) for more information about
network tables.

SEE ALSO

dhcpinfo(1),
dhcpagent(1M), dhcpconfig(1M),
dhcpmgr(1M), dhtadm(1M), ifconfig(1M),
in.dhcpd(1M), netstat(1M), pntadm(1M),
syslog(3C), dhcp_network(4),
dhcptab(4), dhcpsvc.conf(4),
dhcp_inittab(4), dhcp_modules(5)

Solaris DHCP
Service Developer&rsquo;s Guide

Alexander, S.,
and R. Droms, DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
Extensions, RFC 2132, Silicon Graphics, Inc., Bucknell
University, March 1997.

Droms, R.,
Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP,, RFC 1534,
Bucknell University, October 1993.

Droms, R.,
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, RFC 2131,
Bucknell University, March 1997.

Wimer, W.,
Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap
Protocol, RFC 1542, Carnegie Mellon University, October
1993.