DIRNAME(1POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           DIRNAME(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       dirname — return the directory portion of a pathname

SYNOPSIS
       dirname string

DESCRIPTION
       The string operand shall be treated as a pathname, as  defined  in  the
       Base  Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 3.271, Pathname.  The
       string string shall be converted to the name of the directory  contain‐
       ing  the  filename  corresponding  to  the  last  pathname component in
       string, performing actions equivalent to the following steps in order:

        1. If string is //, skip steps 2 to 5.

        2. If string consists entirely of <slash> characters, string shall  be
           set to a single <slash> character. In this case, skip steps 3 to 8.

        3. If  there are any trailing <slash> characters in string, they shall
           be removed.

        4. If there are no <slash>  characters  remaining  in  string,  string
           shall  be  set  to  a single <period> character. In this case, skip
           steps 5 to 8.

        5. If there are any trailing non-<slash> characters  in  string,  they
           shall be removed.

        6. If the remaining string is //, it is implementation-defined whether
           steps 7 and 8 are skipped or processed.

        7. If there are any trailing <slash> characters in string, they  shall
           be removed.

        8. If  the  remaining string is empty, string shall be set to a single
           <slash> character.

       The resulting string shall be written to standard output.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       string    A string.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment  variables  shall  affect  the  execution  of
       dirname:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  dirname  utility  shall write a line to the standard output in the
       following format:

           "%s\n", <resulting string>

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The definition of pathname  specifies  implementation-defined  behavior
       for pathnames starting with two <slash> characters. Therefore, applica‐
       tions shall not arbitrarily add <slash> characters to the beginning  of
       a  pathname unless they can ensure that there are more or less than two
       or are prepared to deal with the implementation-defined consequences.

EXAMPLES
       The EXAMPLES section of the basename() function (see the System  Inter‐
       faces  volume of POSIX.1‐2017, basename()) includes a table showing ex‐
       amples of the results of processing several  sample  pathnames  by  the
       basename()  and  dirname()  functions  and  by the basename and dirname
       utilities.

       See also the examples for the basename utility.

RATIONALE
       The behaviors of basename and dirname in this  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       have been coordinated so that when string is a valid pathname:

           $(basename -- "string")

       would be a valid filename for the file in the directory:

           $(dirname -- "string")

       This  would  not work for the versions of these utilities in early pro‐
       posals due to the way processing of  trailing  <slash>  characters  was
       specified. Consideration was given to leaving processing unspecified if
       there were trailing <slash> characters, but this cannot  be  done;  the
       Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 3.271, Pathname allows
       trailing <slash> characters. The basename and dirname utilities have to
       specify consistent handling for all valid pathnames.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Parameters and Variables, basename

       The  Base  Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 3.271, Pathname,
       Chapter 8, Environment Variables

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, basename(), dirname()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      DIRNAME(1POSIX)
