podman-init(1)              General Commands Manual             podman-init(1)

NAME
       podman-init - Initialize one or more containers

SYNOPSIS
       podman init [options] container [container...]

       podman container init [options] container [container...]

DESCRIPTION
       Initialize  one or more containers.  You may use container IDs or names
       as input.  Initializing a container performs all  tasks  necessary  for
       starting  the  container  (mounting  filesystems, creating an OCI spec,
       initializing the container network) but does not start  the  container.
       If a container is not initialized, the podman start and podman run com‐
       mands will do so automatically prior to starting it.  This  command  is
       intended  to  be  used  for  inspecting  or  modifying  the container's
       filesystem or OCI spec prior to starting it.  This can be used  to  in‐
       spect the container before it runs, or debug why a container is failing
       to run.

OPTIONS
   --all, -a
       Initialize all containers. Containers  that  have  already  initialized
       (including  containers  that have been started and are running) are ig‐
       nored.

   --latest, -l
       Instead of providing the container name or ID,  use  the  last  created
       container.  If you use methods other than Podman to run containers such
       as CRI-O, the last started container could  be  from  either  of  those
       methods.  (This  option is not available with the remote Podman client,
       including Mac and Windows (excluding WSL2) machines)

EXAMPLE
       Initialize container with a given ID

              podman init 35480fc9d568

       Initialize container with a given name

              podman init test1

       Initialize the latest container created by Podman

              podman init --latest

SEE ALSO
       podman(1), podman-start(1)

HISTORY
       April  2019,  Originally  compiled  by  Matthew  Heon  mheon@redhat.com
       ⟨mailto:mheon@redhat.com⟩

                                                                podman-init(1)
