NAME

dpkg-scanpackages
&minus; create Packages files

SYNOPSIS

dpkg-scanpackages
[&minus;m medium] binarydir
overridefile [pathprefix] >
Packages

DESCRIPTION

dpkg-scanpackages
sorts through a tree of Debian binary packages and creates a
Packages file, used by dselect(8) to tell the user
what packages are available for installation. These Packages
files are the same as those found on Debian archive sites
and CD-ROMs. You might use dpkg-scanpackages yourself
if making a directory of local packages to install on a
cluster of machines.

[&minus;m
medium] has to be used if you plan to create a set of
multiple binary CD-ROMs.

binarydir
is the name of the binary tree to process (for example,
contrib/binary-i386). It is best to make this
relative to the root of the Debian archive, because every
Filename field in the new Packages file will start with this
string.

overridefile
is the name of a file to read which contains information
about how the package fits into the distribution; see below.
This file may be compressed with gzip(1) like it is
found in the /pub/debian/indices/ directory on the
Debian FTP archive.

pathprefix
is an optional string to be prepended to the Filename
fields.

THE OVERRIDE FILE

While most
information about a package can be found in the control
file, some must be filled in by the distribution czars
rather than by the maintainer, because they relate to the
arrangement of files for release rather than the actual
dependencies and description of the package. This
information is found in the override file.

The override
file has a simple whitespace-delimited format. Comments are
allowed (denoted with a #).

package
priority section [maintainerinfo]

package
is the name of the package. Entries in the override file for
packages not found in the binary tree are ignored.

priority
and section place the package within the release
tree; these ought not to be found in the control file. If
the package is found in a subdirectory of binarydir,
that will be checked against section.

maintainerinfo,
if present, can be either the name of a maintainer for an
unconditional override, or else oldmaintainer
=> newmaintainer to perform a
substitution.

The override
files used to make the official Packages lists may be found
in the indices directory on any Debian mirror.

DIAGNOSTICS

dpkg-scanpackages
outputs the usual self-explanatory errors. It also warns
about packages that are in the wrong subdirectory, are
duplicated, have a Filename field in their control file, are
missing from the override file, or have maintainer
substitutions which do not take effect.

SEE ALSO

dpkg(8),
dselect(8),
/usr/share/doc/multicd/readme.txt.gz.