ENDPROTOENT(3POSIX)        POSIX Programmer's Manual       ENDPROTOENT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       endprotoent, getprotobyname, getprotobynumber, getprotoent, setprotoent
       — network protocol database functions

SYNOPSIS
       #include <netdb.h>

       void endprotoent(void);
       struct protoent *getprotobyname(const char *name);
       struct protoent *getprotobynumber(int proto);
       struct protoent *getprotoent(void);
       void setprotoent(int stayopen);

DESCRIPTION
       These functions shall retrieve information about protocols. This infor‐
       mation is considered to be stored in a database that  can  be  accessed
       sequentially  or  randomly.  The implementation of this database is un‐
       specified.

       The setprotoent() function shall open a connection to the database, and
       set the next entry to the first entry. If the stayopen argument is non-
       zero, the connection to the network  protocol  database  shall  not  be
       closed after each call to getprotoent() (either directly, or indirectly
       through one of the other getproto*() functions), and the implementation
       may maintain an open file descriptor for the database.

       The getprotobyname() function shall search the database from the begin‐
       ning and find the first entry for which the protocol name specified  by
       name matches the p_name member, opening and closing a connection to the
       database as necessary.

       The getprotobynumber() function shall search the database from the  be‐
       ginning  and  find the first entry for which the protocol number speci‐
       fied by proto matches the p_proto member, opening and closing a connec‐
       tion to the database as necessary.

       The  getprotoent()  function shall read the next entry of the database,
       opening and closing a connection to the database as necessary.

       The getprotobyname(), getprotobynumber(), and  getprotoent()  functions
       shall  each  return  a  pointer to a protoent structure, the members of
       which shall contain the fields of an  entry  in  the  network  protocol
       database.

       The  endprotoent() function shall close the connection to the database,
       releasing any open file descriptor.

       These functions need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, getprotobyname(),  getprotobynumber(),  and
       getprotoent() return a pointer to a protoent structure if the requested
       entry was found, and a null pointer if the  end  of  the  database  was
       reached  or  the  requested  entry  was  not  found.  Otherwise, a null
       pointer is returned.

       The application shall not modify the  structure  to  which  the  return
       value  points,  nor any storage areas pointed to by pointers within the
       structure. The returned pointer, and  pointers  within  the  structure,
       might  be  invalidated  or  the structure or the storage areas might be
       overwritten by a subsequent call  to  getprotobyname(),  getprotobynum‐
       ber(), or getprotoent().  The returned pointer, and pointers within the
       structure, might also be invalidated if the calling  thread  is  termi‐
       nated.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <netdb.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                  ENDPROTOENT(3POSIX)
