NAME

envelopes -
sender/recipient lists attached to messages

INTRODUCTION

Electronic mail
messages are delivered in envelopes.

An envelope
lists a sender and one or more recipients.
Usually these envelope addresses are the same as the
addresses listed in the message header:

   (envelope) from djb to root
   From: djb
   To: root

In more
complicated situations, though, the envelope addresses may
differ from the header addresses.

ENVELOPE EXAMPLES

When a message
is delivered to several people at different locations, it is
first photocopied and placed into several envelopes:
   (envelope) from djb to root
   From: djb                          Copy #1 of message
   To: root, god [AT] brl.mil

   (envelope) from djb to god [AT] brl.mil
   From: djb                          Copy #2 of message
   To: root, god [AT] brl.mil

When a message
is delivered to several people at the same location, the
sender doesn&rsquo;t have to photocopy it. He can instead
stuff it into one envelope with several addresses; the
recipients will make the photocopy:

   (envelope) from djb to god [AT] brl.mil, angel [AT] brl.mil
   From: djb
   To: god [AT] brl.mil, angel [AT] brl.mil, joe, frde

Bounced mail is
sent back to the envelope sender address. The bounced mail
doesn&rsquo;t list an envelope sender, so bounce loops are
impossible:

   (envelope) from <> to djb
   From: MAILER-DAEMON
   To: djb
   Subject: unknown user frde

The recipient
of a message may make another copy and forward it in a new
envelope:
   (envelope) from djb to joe
   From: djb                          Original message
   To: joe

   (envelope) from joe to fred
   From: djb                          Forwarded message
   To: joe

A mailing list
works almost the same way:
   (envelope) from djb to sos-list
   From: djb                          Original message
   To: sos-list
   (envelope) from sos-owner to god [AT] brl.mil
   From: djb                          Forwarded message
   To: sos-list                       to recipient #1

   (envelope) from sos-owner to frde
   From: djb                          Forwarded message
   To: sos-list                       to recipient #2

Notice that the
mailing list is set up to replace the envelope sender with
something new, sos-owner. So bounces will come back
to sos-owner:

   (envelope) from <> to sos-owner
   From: MAILER-DAEMON
   To: sos-owner
   Subject: unknown user frde

It&rsquo;s a
good idea to set up an extra address, sos-owner, like
this: the original envelope sender (djb) has no way
to fix bad sos-list addresses, and of course bounces
must not be sent to sos-list itself.

HOW ENVELOPE ADDRESSES ARE STORED

Envelope sender
and envelope recipient addresses are transmitted and
recorded in several ways.

When a user
injects mail through qmail-inject, he can supply a
Return-Path line or a -f option for the
envelope sender; by default the envelope sender is his login
name. The envelope recipient addresses can be taken from the
command line or from various header fields, depending on the
options to qmail-inject. Similar comments apply to
sendmail.

When a message
is transferred from one machine to another through SMTP, the
envelope sender is given in a MAIL FROM command, the
envelope recipients are given in RCPT TO commands,
and the message is supplied separately by a DATA
command.

When a message
is delivered by qmail to a single local recipient,
qmail-local records the recipient in
Delivered-To and the envelope sender in
Return-Path. It uses Delivered-To to detect
mail forwarding loops.

sendmail
normally records the envelope sender in Return-Path.
It does not record envelope recipient addresses, on the
theory that they are redundant: you received the mail, so
you must have been one of the envelope recipients.

Note that, if
the header doesn&rsquo;t have any recipient addresses,
sendmail will move envelope recipient addresses back
into the header. This situation occurs if all addresses were
originally listed as Bcc, since Bcc is
automatically removed. When sendmail sees this, it
creates a new Apparently-To header field with the
envelope recipient addresses. This has the strange effect
that each blind-carbon-copy recipient will see a list of all
recipients on the same machine.

When a message
is stored in mbox format, the envelope sender is
recorded at the top of the message as a UUCP-style
From (no colon) line. Note that this line is less
reliable than the Return-Path line added by
qmail-local or sendmail.

SEE ALSO

qmail-header(5),
qmail-local(8), qmail-inject(8)