EVENTTIMERS(4) BSD Kernel Interfaces Manual
EVENTTIMERS(4)

NAME

eventtimers —
kernel event timers subsystem

SYNOPSIS

Kernel uses several types of
time-related devices, such as: real time clocks, time
counters and event timers. Real time clocks responsible for
tracking real world time, mostly when system is down. Time
counters are responsible for generation of monotonically
increasing timestamps for precise uptime tracking purposes,
when system is running. Event timers are responsible for
generating interrupts at specified time or periodically, to
run different time-based events. This page is about the
last.

DESCRIPTION

Kernel uses time-based events
for many different purposes: scheduling, statistics, time
keeping, profiling and many other things, based on
callout(9) mechanism. These purposes now grouped into three
main callbacks:

hardclock()

callout(9) and
timekeeping events entry. Called with frequency defined by
hz variable, usually 1000Hz.

statclock()

statistics and
scheduler events entry. Called with frequency about
128Hz.

profclock()

profiler events
entry. When enabled, called with frequency about 8KHz.

Different
platforms provide different kinds of timer hardware. The
goal of the event timers subsystem is to provide unified way
to control that hardware, and to use it, supplying kernel
with all required time-based events.

Each driver
implementing event timers, registers them at the subsystem.
It is possible to see the list of present event timers, like
this, via kern.eventtimer sysctl:

kern.eventtimer.choice:
HPET(550) LAPIC(400) i8254(100) RTC(0) 
kern.eventtimer.et.LAPIC.flags: 15 
kern.eventtimer.et.LAPIC.frequency: 0 
kern.eventtimer.et.LAPIC.quality: 400 
kern.eventtimer.et.i8254.flags: 1 
kern.eventtimer.et.i8254.frequency: 1193182 
kern.eventtimer.et.i8254.quality: 100 
kern.eventtimer.et.RTC.flags: 17 
kern.eventtimer.et.RTC.frequency: 32768 
kern.eventtimer.et.RTC.quality: 0 
kern.eventtimer.et.HPET.flags: 7 
kern.eventtimer.et.HPET.frequency: 14318180 
kern.eventtimer.et.HPET.quality: 550

where:

kern.eventtimer.et.X.flags

is a bitmask, defining event
timer capabilities:

1

periodic mode
supported,

2

one-shot mode
supported,

4

timer is
per-CPU,

8

timer may stop
when CPU goes to sleep state,

16

timer supports
only power-of-2 divisors.

kern.eventtimer.et.X.frequency

is a timer base frequency,

kern.eventtimer.et.X.quality

is an integral value, defining
how good is this timer, comparing to others.

Timers
management code of the kernel chooses one timer from that
list. Current choice can be read and affected via
kern.eventtimer.timer tunable/sysctl. Several other
tunables/sysctls are affecting how exactly this timer is
used:

kern.eventtimer.periodic

allows to choose periodic and
one-shot operation mode. In periodic mode, periodic
interrupts from timer hardware are taken as the only source
of time for time events. One-shot mode instead uses
currently selected time counter to precisely schedule all
needed events and programs event timer to generate interrupt
exactly in specified time. Default value depends of chosen
timer capabilities, but one-shot mode is preferred, until
other is forced by user or hardware.

kern.eventtimer.singlemul

in periodic mode specifies how
much times higher timer frequency should be, to not strictly
alias hardclock() and statclock() events.
Default values are 1, 2 or 4, depending on configured HZ
value.

kern.eventtimer.idletick

makes each CPU to receive every
timer interrupt independently of whether they busy or not.
By default this options is disabled. If chosen timer is
per-CPU and runs in periodic mode, this option has no effect
- all interrupts are always generating.

SEE ALSO

apic(4), atrtc(4), attimer(4),
hpet(4), timecounters(4), eventtimers(9)

BSD
March 13, 2012 BSD