EXIM_ID_UPDATE(8)           System Manager's Manual          EXIM_ID_UPDATE(8)

NAME
       exim_id_update - one-time down/upgrade of Exim message-id formats

DESCRIPTION
       Utility  for  one-time down/upgrade of Exim message-id formats in spool
       files between format used in 4.96 and earlier and 4.97 and  later  ver‐
       sions.   Only  the  filenames  and the first-line ID tag values are af‐
       fected; not message content such as Message-ID fields.  Only -H, -D and
       -J files are handled.

SYNOPSIS
       exim_id_update [-d | -u | -h | -v] [spooldir]

OPTIONS
       -d     Downgrade mode

       -h     This help message

       -u     Upgrade mode

       -v     Version

       Exactly one of -d or -u must be given.  The spool directory defaults to
       the build-time value, or can be given as a command-line argument.

BACKGROUND
       The internal exim message ID format changed in 4.97:

       Change format of the internal ID used for message  identification.  The
       old  version  only  supported 31 bits for a PID element; the new 64 (on
       systems which can use Base-62 encoding, which  is  all  currently  sup‐
       ported  ones but not Darwin (MacOS) or Cygwin, which have case-insensi‐
       tive filesystems and must use Base-36).  The new ID  is  23  characters
       rather  than  16, and is visible in various places - notably logs, mes‐
       sage headers, and spool file names.  Various of the ancillary utilities
       also have to know the format.

       As  well  as  the expanded PID portion, the sub-second part of the time
       recorded in the ID is expanded to support finer  precision.   Theoreti‐
       cally this permits a receive rate from a single comms channel of better
       than the previous 2000/sec.

       The major timestamp part of the ID is not changed; at 6  characters  it
       is usable until about year 3700.

       Updating  from previously releases is fully supported: old-format spool
       files are still usable, and the utilities support  both  formats.   New
       message will use the new format.  The one hints-DB file type which uses
       message-IDs (the transport wait- DB) will be discarded if an old-format
       ID is seen; new ones will be built with only new-format IDs.

       Optionally,  a  utility  can be used to convert spool files from old to
       new, but this is only an efficiency measure not a requirement for oper‐
       ation.

       Downgrading from new to old requires running a provided utility, having
       first stopped all operations.  This will convert any spool  files  from
       new  back to old (losing time-precision and PID information) and remove
       any wait- hints databases.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was stitched together from help2man  output  and  Exim
       changelog entry 4.97 JH/29 by Andreas Metzler <ametzler at debian.org>,
       for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

Utility for one-time down/upgradSeptember 2023age-id formats EXIM_ID_UPDATE(8)
