NAME

expireover -
Expire entries from the news overview database

SYNOPSIS

expireover
[-ekNpqs] [-f file] [-w
offset] [-z rmfile] [-Z
lowmarkfile]

DESCRIPTION

expireover
expires old entries from the news overview database. It
reads in a list of newsgroups (by default from
pathdb/active, but a different file can be specified
with the -f option) and then removes from the
overview database mentions of any articles that no longer
exist in the news spool.

If
groupbaseexpiry in inn.conf is true,
expireover also removes old articles from the news
spool according to the expiration rules in
expire.ctl. Otherwise it only removes overview
entries for articles that have already been removed by some
other process, and -e, -k, -N,
-p, -q, -w, and -z are all
ignored.

When
groupbaseexpiry is set, the default behavior of
expireover is to remove the article from the spool
once it expires out of all of the newsgroups to which it was
crossposted. The article is, however, removed from the
overview database of each newsgroup as soon as it expires
out of that individual newsgroup. The effect is that an
article crossposted to several groups will be removed from
the overview database from each group one-by-one as its age
passes the expiration threshold for that group as set in
expire.ctl, and then when it expires out of the last
newsgroup, it will be deleted from the news spool.

Articles that
are stored in self-expiring storage backends such as CNFS
are normally treated differently and not expired until they
expire out of the backend regardless of expire.ctl.
See -N, however.

By default,
expireover purges all overview information for
newsgroups that have been removed from the server; this
behavior is suppressed if -f is given.

OPTIONS

-e

Remove articles from the news
spool and all overview databases as soon as they expire out
of any newsgroup to which they are posted, rather than
retain them until they expire out of all newsgroups.
-e and -k cannot be used at the same time.
This flag is ignored if groupbaseexpiry is false.

-f file

Use file as the
newsgroup list instead of pathdb/active. file
can be "-" to indicate standard input. Using this
flag suppresses the normal purge of all overview information
from newsgroups that have been removed from the server.

-k

Retain all overview information for an article, as well
as the article itself, until it expires out of all
newsgroups to which it was posted. This can cause articles
to stick around in a newsgroup for longer than the
expire.ctl rules indicate, when they&rsquo;re
crossposted. -e and -k cannot be used at the
same time. This flag is ignored if groupbaseexpiry is
false. 

-N

Apply expire.ctl rules to expire articles even
from storage methods that have self-expire functionality.
This may remove articles from self-expiring storage methods
before the articles "naturally" expire. This flag
is ignored if groupbaseexpiry is false.

-p

By default, expireover bases decisions on whether
to remove an article on the arrival time on the server. This
means that articles may be kept a little longer than if the
decision were based on the article&rsquo;s posting date. If
this option is given, expiration decisions are based on the
article posting date instead. This flag is ignored if
groupbaseexpiry is false.

-q

expireover normally prints statistics at the end
of the expiration process. -q suppresses this report.
This flag is ignored if groupbaseexpiry is false.

-s

expireover normally only checks the existence of
articles in the news spool if querying the storage method
for that article to see if it still exists is considered
"inexpensive". To always check the existence of
all articles regardless of how resource-intensive this may
be, use the -s flag. See storage.conf(5) for more
information about this metric.

-w offset

"Warps" time so that
expireover thinks that it&rsquo;s running at some
time other than the current time. This is occasionally
useful to force groups to be expired or not expired without
changing expire.ctl for the expire run. offset
should be a signed floating point number specifying the
number of days difference from the current time to use as
"now". This flag is ignored if
groupbaseexpiry is false.

-z rmfile

Don&rsquo;t remove articles
immediately but instead write the path to the article or the
token of the article to rmfile, which is suitable
input for fastrm(1). This can substantially speed up
deletion of expired articles for those storage methods where
each article is a single file (such as tradspool and
timehash). See the description of the delayrm keyword
in news.daily(8) for more details. This flag is ignored if
groupbaseexpiry is false.

-Z
lowmarkfile

Write the lowest article
numbers for each newsgroup as it&rsquo;s expired to the
specified file. This file is then suitable for "ctlinnd
lowmark". See ctlinnd(8) for more information.

EXAMPLES

Normally
expireover is invoked from news.daily(8), which
handles such things as processing the rmfile and
lowmarkfile if necessary. Sometimes it&rsquo;s
convenient to manually expire a particular newsgroup,
however. This can be done with a command like:

echo
example.test | expireover -f - -Z /lowmark 
ctlinnd lowmark /lowmark

This can be
particularly useful if a lot of articles in a particular
group have expired but the overview information is still
present, causing some clients to see a lot of "this
article may have been cancelled" messages when they
first enter the newsgroup.

HISTORY

Written by Rob
Robertson rob [AT] violet.edu> and Rich $alz
rsalz [AT] uunet.net> (with help from Dave Lawrence
tale [AT] uunet.net>) for InterNetNews.

SEE ALSO

active(5),
ctlinnd(8), expire(8), expire.ctl(5), inn.conf(5),
news.daily(8).