FAILLOG(8)                       系统管理命令                       FAILLOG(8)

名称
       faillog - 显示登录失败记录或设置登录失败限制

大纲
       faillog [选项]

描述
       faillog displays the contents of the failure log database
       (/var/log/faillog). It can also set the failure counters and limits.
       When faillog is run without arguments, it only displays the faillog
       records of the users who had a login failure.

选项
       The options which apply to the faillog command are:

       -a, --all
           Display (or act on) faillog records for all users having an entry
           in the faillog database.

           The range of users can be restricted with the -u option.

           In display mode, this is still restricted to existing users but
           forces the display of the faillog entries even if they are empty.

           With the -l, -m, -r, -t options, the users' records are changed,
           even if the user does not exist on the system. This is useful to
           reset records of users that have been deleted or to set a policy in
           advance for a range of users.

       -h, --help
           显示帮助信息并退出。

       -l, --lock-secs SEC
           Lock account for SEC seconds after failed login.

           Write access to /var/log/faillog is required for this option.

       -m, --maximum MAX
           Set the maximum number of login failures after the account is
           disabled to MAX.

           Selecting a MAX value of 0 has the effect of not placing a limit on
           the number of failed logins.

           The maximum failure count should always be 0 for root to prevent a
           denial of services attack against the system.

           Write access to /var/log/faillog is required for this option.

       -r, --reset
           重置登录失败计数。

           Write access to /var/log/faillog is required for this option.

       -R, --root CHROOT_DIR
           Apply changes in the CHROOT_DIR directory and use the configuration
           files from the CHROOT_DIR directory. Only absolute paths are
           supported.

       -t, --time DAYS
           Display faillog records more recent than DAYS.

       -u, --user LOGIN|RANGE
           Display faillog record or maintains failure counters and limits (if
           used with -l, -m or -r options) only for the specified user(s).

           The users can be specified by a login name, a numerical user ID, or
           a RANGE of users. This RANGE of users can be specified with a min
           and max values (UID_MIN-UID_MAX), a max value (-UID_MAX), or a min
           value (UID_MIN-).

       When none of the -l, -m, or -r options are used, faillog displays the
       faillog record of the specified user(s).

CAVEATS
       faillog only prints out users with no successful login since the last
       failure. To print out a user who has had a successful login since their
       last failure, you must explicitly request the user with the -u flag, or
       print out all users with the -a flag.

文件
       /var/log/faillog
           Failure logging file.

参见
       login(1), faillog(5).

shadow-utils 4.13                 2025-04-07                        FAILLOG(8)