FEGETENV(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          FEGETENV(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fegetenv, fesetenv — get and set current floating-point environment

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int fegetenv(fenv_t *envp);
       int fesetenv(const fenv_t *envp);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  fegetenv()  function  shall attempt to store the current floating-
       point environment in the object pointed to by envp.

       The fesetenv() function shall attempt to establish  the  floating-point
       environment represented by the object pointed to by envp.  The argument
       envp shall point to an object set by a call to fegetenv() or  feholdex‐
       cept(),  or  equal  a  floating-point environment macro. The fesetenv()
       function does not raise floating-point exceptions,  but  only  installs
       the  state  of  the floating-point status flags represented through its
       argument.

RETURN VALUE
       If the representation was successfully stored, fegetenv() shall  return
       zero.  Otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.  If the environment
       was successfully established, fesetenv() shall return zero.  Otherwise,
       it shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feholdexcept(), feupdateenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     FEGETENV(3POSIX)
