FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3POSIX)    POSIX Programmer's Manual   FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fegetexceptflag, fesetexceptflag — get and  set  floating-point  status
       flags

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int fegetexceptflag(fexcept_t *flagp, int excepts);
       int fesetexceptflag(const fexcept_t *flagp, int excepts);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
       ISO C standard. Any conflict between the  requirements  described  here
       and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The fegetexceptflag() function shall attempt to  store  an  implementa‐
       tion-defined  representation of the states of the floating-point status
       flags indicated by the argument excepts in the object pointed to by the
       argument flagp.

       The  fesetexceptflag() function shall attempt to set the floating-point
       status flags indicated by the argument excepts to the states stored  in
       the  object  pointed  to by flagp.  The value pointed to by flagp shall
       have been set by a previous call to fegetexceptflag() whose second  ar‐
       gument represented at least those floating-point exceptions represented
       by the argument excepts.  This function does not  raise  floating-point
       exceptions, but only sets the state of the flags.

RETURN VALUE
       If  the representation was successfully stored, fegetexceptflag() shall
       return zero. Otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.  If  the  ex‐
       cepts argument is zero or if all the specified exceptions were success‐
       fully set, fesetexceptflag() shall return zero. Otherwise, it shall re‐
       turn a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), feraiseexcept(), fetestexcept()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017              FEGETEXCEPTFLAG(3POSIX)
