FEHOLDEXCEPT(3POSIX)       POSIX Programmer's Manual      FEHOLDEXCEPT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       feholdexcept — save current floating-point environment

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int feholdexcept(fenv_t *envp);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The feholdexcept() function shall save the current floating-point envi‐
       ronment in the object pointed to by envp, clear the floating-point sta‐
       tus  flags, and then install a non-stop (continue on floating-point ex‐
       ceptions) mode, if available, for all floating-point exceptions.

RETURN VALUE
       The feholdexcept() function shall return zero if and only  if  non-stop
       floating-point exception handling was successfully installed.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       The   feholdexcept()   function   should   be   effective   on  typical
       IEC 60559:1989 standard implementations which have the default non-stop
       mode  and at least one other mode for trap handling or aborting. If the
       implementation provides only the non-stop  mode,  then  installing  the
       non-stop mode is trivial.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       fegetenv(), feupdateenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                 FEHOLDEXCEPT(3POSIX)
