FERAISEEXCEPT(3POSIX)      POSIX Programmer's Manual     FERAISEEXCEPT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       feraiseexcept — raise floating-point exception

SYNOPSIS
       #include <fenv.h>

       int feraiseexcept(int excepts);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  feraiseexcept()  function  shall  attempt  to  raise the supported
       floating-point exceptions represented by the excepts argument. The  or‐
       der in which these floating-point exceptions are raised is unspecified,
       except that if the excepts argument represents IEC 60559 valid  coinci‐
       dent  floating-point  exceptions for atomic operations (namely overflow
       and inexact, or underflow and  inexact),  then  overflow  or  underflow
       shall  be  raised before inexact.  Whether the feraiseexcept() function
       additionally raises the inexact floating-point  exception  whenever  it
       raises  the overflow or underflow floating-point exception is implemen‐
       tation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       If the argument is zero or if all the specified  exceptions  were  suc‐
       cessfully  raised,  feraiseexcept()  shall  return  zero. Otherwise, it
       shall return a non-zero value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The effect is intended to be similar to that of  floating-point  excep‐
       tions  raised by arithmetic operations. Hence, enabled traps for float‐
       ing-point exceptions raised by this function are taken.

RATIONALE
       Raising overflow or underflow is allowed to also raise inexact  because
       on  some  architectures the only practical way to raise an exception is
       to execute an instruction that has the exception as a side-effect.  The
       function  is not restricted to accept only valid coincident expressions
       for atomic operations, so the function can be used to raise  exceptions
       accrued over several operations.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       feclearexcept(), fegetexceptflag(), fetestexcept()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <fenv.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                FERAISEEXCEPT(3POSIX)
