FGETPOS(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           FGETPOS(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fgetpos — get current file position information

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fgetpos(FILE *restrict stream, fpos_t *restrict pos);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  fgetpos()  function  shall  store  the current values of the parse
       state (if any) and file position indicator for the stream pointed to by
       stream  in the object pointed to by pos.  The value stored contains un‐
       specified information usable by fsetpos() for repositioning the  stream
       to its position at the time of the call to fgetpos().

       The  fgetpos()  function  shall not change the setting of errno if suc‐
       cessful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, fgetpos() shall  return  0;  otherwise,  it
       shall return a non-zero value and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fgetpos() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not valid.

       EOVERFLOW
              The  current  value  of  the file position cannot be represented
              correctly in an object of type fpos_t.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe,
              FIFO, or socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), ftell(), rewind(), ungetc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      FGETPOS(3POSIX)
