FILENO(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            FILENO(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fileno — map a stream pointer to a file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int fileno(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The fileno() function shall return the integer file descriptor  associ‐
       ated with the stream pointed to by stream.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, fileno() shall return the integer value of
       the file descriptor associated with stream.  Otherwise,  the  value  -1
       shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The fileno() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The stream is not associated with a file.

       The fileno() function may fail if:

       EBADF  The  file  descriptor  underlying stream is not a valid file de‐
              scriptor.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Without some specification of which  file  descriptors  are  associated
       with  these  streams, it is impossible for an application to set up the
       streams for another application it starts with  fork()  and  exec.   In
       particular, it would not be possible to write a portable version of the
       sh command interpreter (although there may be  other  constraints  that
       would prevent that portability).

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.5.1,  Interaction  of  File  Descriptors  and  Standard  I/O
       Streams, dirfd(), fdopen(), fopen(), stdin

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       FILENO(3POSIX)
