NAME

fns_nis −
overview of FNS over NIS (YP) implementation

DESCRIPTION

Federated
Naming Service (FNS) provides a method for federating
multiple naming services under a single, simple interface
for the basic naming operations. One of the naming services
supported by FNS is NIS (YP), the
enterprise-wide information services in Solaris (see
ypcat(1), ypmatch(1), ypfiles(4)).
FNS provides the XFN interface for performing
naming and attribute operations on FNS enterprise
objects (organization, site, user, host and service objects)
using NIS. FNS stores bindings for these objects in
NIS and uses them in conjunction with existing
NIS objects.

FNS Policies
and NIS 
FNS defines policies for naming objects in the federated
namespace (see fns_policies(5)). At the enterprise
level, FNS policies specify naming for organizations,
hosts, users, sites, and services. The enterprise-level
naming service provides contexts to allow other objects to
be named relative to these objects.

The FNS
organizational unit namespace provides a hierarchical
namespace for naming subunits of an enterprise. However,
NIS does not support a hierarchical organizational
structure. Therefore, a NIS domain maps to a single
organizational unit in the FNS namespace.

Users in an
FNS organizational unit correspond to the users in
the passwd.byname map of the corresponding NIS
domain. FNS provides a context for each user in the
passwd.byname map.

Hosts in an
FNS organizational unit correspond to the hosts in
the hosts.byname map of the corresponding NIS
domain. FNS provides a context for each host in the
hosts.byname map.

Federating
NIS with DNS or X.500 
Federating NIS with the global naming systems
DNS or X.500 makes NIS contexts accessible
outside of an NIS domain. To enable the federation,
the administrator must first add address information in
either DNS or X.500 (see fns_dns(5) and
fns_x500(5)). After this administrative step has been
taken, clients outside of the NIS domain can access
contexts and perform operations.

Security
Considerations 
Changes to the FNS information (using the commands
fncreate(1M), fncreate_fs(1M),
fncreate_printer(1M), fnbind(1),
fndestroy(1M), fncheck(1M), and
fnunbind(1)) can be performed only by the privileged
users on the NIS master server that maintains the
FNS information.

For example,
the command fncreate(1M) creates the NIS map
for the associated NIS domain in the system on which
it is executed. Hence, the command must be run by a
privileged user either on the NIS master server or on
a system that will serve as a NIS master server for
FNS.

The NIS
object name that corresponds to an FNS composite name
can be obtained using fnlookup(1) and
fnlist(1).

SEE ALSO

fnbind(1),
fnlist(1), fnlookup(1), fnunbind(1),
ypcat(1), ypmatch(1), fncheck(1M),
fncreate(1M), fncreate_fs(1M),
fncreate_printer(1M), fndestroy(1M),
xfn(3XFN), ypfiles(4), fns(5),
fns_dns(5), fns_files(5),
fns_initial_context(5), fns_nis+(5),
fns_policies(5), fns_references(5),
fns_x500(5)