Font::TTF::Ttc(3pm)   User Contributed Perl Documentation  Font::TTF::Ttc(3pm)

NAME
       Font::TTF::Ttc - Truetype Collection class

DESCRIPTION
       A TrueType collection is a collection of TrueType fonts in one file in
       which tables may be shared between different directories. In order to
       support this, the TTC introduces the concept of a table being shared by
       different TrueType fonts. This begs the question of what should happen
       to the ' PARENT' property of a particular table. It is made to point to
       the first directory object which refers to it. It is therefore up to
       the application to sort out any confusion.  Confusion only occurs if
       shared tables require access to non-shared tables.  This should not
       happen since the shared tables are dealing with glyph information only
       and the private tables are dealing with encoding and glyph
       identification. Thus the general direction is from identification to
       glyph and not the other way around (at least not without knowledge of
       the particular context).

INSTANCE VARIABLES
       The following instance variables are preceded by a space

       fname (P)
           Filename for this TrueType Collection

       INFILE (P)
           The filehandle of this collection

       The following instance variable does not start with a space

       directs
           An array of directories (Font::TTF::Font objects) for each sub-font
           in the directory

METHODS
   Font::TTF::Ttc->open($fname)
       Opens and reads the given filename as a TrueType Collection. Reading a
       collection involves reading each of the directories which go to make up
       the collection.

   $c->read
       Reads a Collection by reading all the directories in the collection

   $c->find($direct, $name, $check, $off, $len)
       Hunts around to see if a table with the given characteristics of name,
       checksum, offset and length has been associated with a directory
       earlier in the list.  Actually on checks the offset since no two tables
       can share the same offset in a TrueType font, collection or otherwise.

   $c->DESTROY
       Closees any opened files by us

BUGS
       No known bugs, but then not ever executed!

AUTHOR
       Martin Hosken <http://scripts.sil.org/FontUtils>.

LICENSING
       Copyright (c) 1998-2016, SIL International (http://www.sil.org)

       This module is released under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.
       For details, see the full text of the license in the file LICENSE.

perl v5.34.0                      2022-06-14               Font::TTF::Ttc(3pm)
