Font::TTF::GDEF(3pm)  User Contributed Perl Documentation Font::TTF::GDEF(3pm)

NAME
       Font::TTF::GDEF - Opentype GDEF table support

DESCRIPTION
       The GDEF table contains various global lists of information which are
       apparantly used in other places in an OpenType renderer. But precisely
       where is open to speculation...

INSTANCE VARIABLES
       There are up to 5 tables in the GDEF table, each with their own
       structure:

       GLYPH
           This is an Font::TTF::Coverage Class Definition table containing
           information as to what type each glyph is.

       ATTACH
           The attach table consists of a coverage table and then attachment
           points for each glyph in the coverage table:

           COVERAGE
                   This is a coverage table

           POINTS  This is an array of point elements. Each element is an
                   array of curve points corresponding to the attachment
                   points on that glyph. The order of the curve points in the
                   array corresponds to the attachment point number specified
                   in the MARKS coverage table (see below).

       LIG This contains the ligature caret positioning information for
           ligature glyphs

           COVERAGE
                   A coverage table to say which glyphs are ligatures

           LIGS    An array of elements for each ligature. Each element is an
                   array of information for each caret position in the
                   ligature (there being number of components - 1 of these,
                   generally)

                   FMT         This is the format of the information and is
                               important to provide the semantics for the
                               value. This value must be set correctly before
                               output

                   VAL         The value which has meaning according to FMT

                   DEVICE      For FMT = 3, a device table is also referenced
                               which is stored here

       MARKS
           This class definition table defines the classes of mark glyphs that
           can be selected for processing using the MarkAttachmentType field
           of lookup FLAG words.

       MARKSETS
           Contains an array of coverage tables indexed by the FILTER value of
           a lookup.

METHODS
   $t->read
       Reads the table into the data structure

   $t->out($fh)
       Writes out this table.

   $t->minsize()
       Returns the minimum size this table can be. If it is smaller than this,
       then the table must be bad and should be deleted or whatever.

   $t->update
       Sort COVERAGE tables.

AUTHOR
       Martin Hosken <http://scripts.sil.org/FontUtils>.

LICENSING
       Copyright (c) 1998-2016, SIL International (http://www.sil.org)

       This module is released under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.
       For details, see the full text of the license in the file LICENSE.

perl v5.34.0                      2022-06-14              Font::TTF::GDEF(3pm)
