FOSSIL(1)                        User Commands                       FOSSIL(1)



NAME
       fossil - Distributed Version Control System

SYNOPSIS
       fossil help
       fossil help COMMAND
       fossil COMMAND [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       Fossil is a distributed version control system (DVCS) with built-in fo‐
       rum, wiki, ticket tracker, CGI/HTTP interface, and HTTP server.


Common COMMANDs:
       add          cat          diff         ls           revert        time‐
       line
       addremove    changes      extras       merge        rm           ui
       all          chat         finfo        mv           settings     undo
       amend        clean        gdiff        open         sql          unver‐
       sioned
       annotate     clone        grep         pull         stash        update
       bisect       commit       help         push          status        ver‐
       sion
       blame        dbstat       info         rebuild      sync
       branch       delete       init         remote       tag


FEATURES
       Features as described on the fossil home page.


       1.   Integrated  Bug Tracking, Wiki, Forum, and Technotes - In addition
              to doing distributed version control  like  Git  and  Mercurial,
              Fossil also supports bug tracking, wiki, forum, and technotes.


       2.   Built-in  Web  Interface - Fossil has a built-in and intuitive web
              interface that  promotes  project  situational  awareness.  Type
              "fossil  ui"  and  Fossil automatically opens a web browser to a
              page that shows detailed graphical history and  status  informa‐
              tion on that project.


       3.  Self-Contained - Fossil is a single self-contained stand-alone exe‐
              cutable. To install, simply download a  precompiled  binary  for
              Linux,  Mac, OpenBSD, or Windows and put it on your $PATH. Easy-
              to-compile source code is available for  users  on  other  plat‐
              forms.


       4.   Simple  Networking - No custom protocols or TCP ports. Fossil uses
              plain old HTTP (or HTTPS or SSH) for all network communications,
              so  it  works  fine from behind restrictive firewalls, including
              proxies. The protocol is bandwidth efficient to the  point  that
              Fossil  can be used comfortably over dial-up or over the exceed‐
              ingly slow Wifi on airliners.


       5.  CGI/SCGI Enabled - No server is required, but if you  want  to  set
              one up, Fossil supports four easy server configurations.


       6.   Autosync  -  Fossil  supports  "autosync" mode which helps to keep
              projects moving forward by reducing the amount of needless fork‐
              ing and merging often associated with distributed projects.


       7.   Robust  &  Reliable - Fossil stores content using an enduring file
              format in an SQLite database so  that  transactions  are  atomic
              even  if  interrupted by a power loss or system crash. Automatic
              self-checks verify that all aspects of the repository  are  con‐
              sistent prior to each commit.


       8.  Free and Open-Source - Uses the 2-clause BSD license.


DOCUMENTATION
       https://fossil-scm.org/
       fossil ui



https://fossil-scm.org             July 2021                         FOSSIL(1)
