FREE(3POSIX)               POSIX Programmer's Manual              FREE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       free — free allocated memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void free(void *ptr);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  free()  function shall cause the space pointed to by ptr to be de‐
       allocated; that is, made available for further allocation. If ptr is  a
       null  pointer,  no  action shall occur. Otherwise, if the argument does
       not match a pointer earlier returned by a function in POSIX.1‐2008 that
       allocates  memory  as  if by malloc(), or if the space has been deallo‐
       cated by a call to free() or realloc(), the behavior is undefined.

       Any use of a pointer that refers to freed space  results  in  undefined
       behavior.

RETURN VALUE
       The free() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       There  is  now no requirement for the implementation to support the in‐
       clusion of <malloc.h>.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       calloc(), malloc(), posix_memalign(), realloc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                         FREE(3POSIX)
