FREXP(3POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             FREXP(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       frexp, frexpf, frexpl — extract mantissa and  exponent  from  a  double
       precision number

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double frexp(double num, int *exp);
       float frexpf(float num, int *exp);
       long double frexpl(long double num, int *exp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
       ISO C standard. Any conflict between the  requirements  described  here
       and  the  ISO C  standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       These functions shall break a floating-point number num into a  normal‐
       ized fraction and an integral power of 2. The integer exponent shall be
       stored in the int object pointed to by exp.

RETURN VALUE
       For finite arguments, these functions shall return the  value  x,  such
       that  x  has  a  magnitude in the interval [½,1) or 0, and num equals x
       times 2 raised to the power *exp.

       If num is NaN, a NaN shall be returned, and the value of  *exp  is  un‐
       specified.

       If num is ±0, ±0 shall be returned, and the value of *exp shall be 0.

       If num is ±Inf, num shall be returned, and the value of *exp is unspec‐
       ified.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isnan(), ldexp(), modf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        FREXP(3POSIX)
