FTELL(3POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             FTELL(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ftell, ftello — return a file offset in a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       long ftell(FILE *stream);
       off_t ftello(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  ftell()  function shall obtain the current value of the file-posi‐
       tion indicator for the stream pointed to by stream.

       The ftell() function shall not change the setting of errno if  success‐
       ful.

       The  ftello()  function shall be equivalent to ftell(), except that the
       return value is of type off_t and the ftello() function may change  the
       setting of errno if successful.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, ftell() and ftello() shall return the cur‐
       rent value of the file-position indicator for the  stream  measured  in
       bytes from the beginning of the file.

       Otherwise, ftell() and ftello() shall return -1, and set errno to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       The ftell() and ftello() functions shall fail if:

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is not an  open  file  de‐
              scriptor.

       EOVERFLOW
              For  ftell(), the current file offset cannot be represented cor‐
              rectly in an object of type long.

       EOVERFLOW
              For ftello(), the current file offset cannot be represented cor‐
              rectly in an object of type off_t.

       ESPIPE The file descriptor underlying stream is associated with a pipe,
              FIFO, or socket.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fgetpos(), fopen(), fseek(), lseek()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        FTELL(3POSIX)
