NAME

ftp-proxy -
application level proxy for the FTP protocol

SYNOPSIS

ftp-proxy
[-c] [-d|-i] [-f file] [-n] [-v level] [-V]

DESCRIPTION

FTP-Proxy
acts as an application level gateway between FTP clients and
servers. Its main purpose is to secure local FTP servers
against possibly insecure clients or malicious attacks.
FTP-Proxy is believed to be immune against current known
attacks based on the FTP protocol.

FTP-Proxy can
be started from the inetd (or xinetd, or any other) internet
super daemon or executed on its own as a standalone daemon,
in which case it will fork child processes to handle
connections. The behaviour depends on the
ftp-proxy.conf(5) configuration option
ServerType or the -i and -d command
line switches, where the latter two take precedence.

FTP-Proxy
features a rich set of auditing and command restriction
capabilities and is specifically suited for deployment in
firewall environments.

OPTIONS

-V

Print the program’s
version information and terminate with exit code 0.

-c

Read the configuration file, output its contents sorted
by section and option name to standard output, and terminate
with exit code 0. This option is mostly interesting for
diagnostic purposes.

-d

Force FTP-Proxy to run in standalone (daemon) mode, even
if a ServerType inetd directive exists in the
configuration file.

-i

Force FTP-Proxy to run in inetd mode, even if a
ServerType standalone directive exists in the
configuration file.

-f filename

Specify an alternate
configuration file to be read instead of the standard
/etc/proxy-suite/ftp-proxy.conf file.

Please note
that the default path for the configuration file is a
compile time option. It can be changed using the
--prefix and --sysconfdir options when running
the configure script - see also the INSTALL
file for usage description.

-n

Do not detach from the controlling terminal. This
prevents the default of becoming a daemon and is ignored if
running in inetd mode. The main purpose of this
option is to support the AIX System Resource Controller or
similar setups, where several daemons are controlled by a
master daemon.

-v level

Enable diagnostic output to be
sent to the file /tmp/ftp-proxy.debug. The given
level must be in the range from 0 (no output at all) to 4
(maximum verbosity). See also DIAGNOSTICS bellow.

SIGNALS

SIGTERM,
SIGQUIT, SIGINT

These signals instruct
FTP-Proxy to abort any existing transfer, close all
connections and terminate the process. If the target of the
signal is a running FTP-Proxy daemon, all current child
processes wil also be terminated.

SIGHUP

This signal will be accepted if running in daemon mode
and ignored in inetd mode.

It causes the FTP-Proxy to
reread its configuration file and to reopen the log
destination if it was changed in the configuration file, or
rotated if it is a log file. 
See also dedicated rotation singnal SIGUSR1
bellow.

SIGUSR1

This signal will be accepted if
running in daemon mode and ignored in inetd mode. 
It causes the FTP-Proxy to close its current logfile, rename
it to a date and time derived value, and open a new logfile.
This procedure is also known as Logfile Rotation.
Child processes forked before the reception of this signal
and processes run from inetd will not be affected.

See also the ServerRoot configuration option in
ftp-proxy.conf(5).

NOTES

When running
FTP-Proxy in inetd mode, it is always an excellent
idea to check that the inetd configuration file includes a
line that invokes FTP-Proxy. An example for a line in
/etc/inetd.conf follows:

ftp stream
tcp nowait root /usr/sbin/ftp-proxy -i

Please note
that this is just an example and does not provide much
security, like running as a non-privileged user or using the
TCP Wrapper functionality.

DIAGNOSTICS

The -v
option is is only available if enabled using the
--enable-debug option when running the configure
script - see also the INSTALL file for usage
description. This option should be used with great care
only. It is strongly recommended to not to use it in
production environments.

If debugging is
activated, it always adds output to the file
/tmp/ftp-proxy.debug which is created with
0666 mode. This allows child processes to open and
write the file after they have given up their root
privileges.

If the
configuration file contains a ServerRoot directive,
child processes and processes run from inetd will try
to open the file within their chroot(2) environment.
If this fails, e.g. because there is no /tmp
directory, it is silently ignored and no debug output is
generated.

Please note
that the program makes no attempt to erase the debug file
after use. Thus it will stay around with world writeability
until the operator manually removes it!

FILES

/etc/proxy-suite/ftp-proxy.conf

/usr/sbin/ftp-proxy

SEE ALSO

ftp-proxy.conf(5)

The SuSE
Proxy-Suite documentation included in the doc
subdirectory of the package.

AUTHORS

Jens-Gero Boehm
jens-gero.boehm [AT] suse.de> 
Pieter Hollants pieter.hollants [AT] suse.de> 
Volker Wiegand volker.wiegand [AT] suse.de> 
Marius Tomaschewski mt [AT] suse.de>

COPYRIGHT

The whole
SuSE Proxy-Suite is released under the 
GNU General Public License (GPL).