FWRITE(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            FWRITE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       fwrite — binary output

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       size_t fwrite(const void *restrict ptr, size_t size, size_t nitems,
           FILE *restrict stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The fwrite() function shall write, from the array pointed to by ptr, up
       to nitems elements whose size is  specified  by  size,  to  the  stream
       pointed to by stream.  For each object, size calls shall be made to the
       fputc() function, taking the values (in order) from  an  array  of  un‐
       signed  char exactly overlaying the object. The file-position indicator
       for the stream (if defined) shall be advanced by the  number  of  bytes
       successfully  written.  If  an error occurs, the resulting value of the
       file-position indicator for the stream is unspecified.

       The last data modification and last file status  change  timestamps  of
       the file shall be marked for update between the successful execution of
       fwrite() and the next successful completion of a call  to  fflush()  or
       fclose() on the same stream, or a call to exit() or abort().

RETURN VALUE
       The  fwrite() function shall return the number of elements successfully
       written, which may be less than nitems if a write error is encountered.
       If  size  or  nitems is 0, fwrite() shall return 0 and the state of the
       stream remains unchanged. Otherwise, if a write error occurs, the error
       indicator  for the stream shall be set, and errno shall be set to indi‐
       cate the error.

ERRORS
       Refer to fputc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Because of possible differences in element length  and  byte  ordering,
       files  written  using  fwrite() are application-dependent, and possibly
       cannot be read using fread() by a different application or by the  same
       application on a different processor.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section  2.5,  Standard  I/O  Streams,  ferror(),  fopen(),  fprintf(),
       putc(), puts(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       FWRITE(3POSIX)
