NAME

g3topbm -
convert a Group 3 fax file into a PBM image

SYNOPSIS

g3topbm
[-reversebits] [-stretch]
[-width=pixels | paper_size={A3|A4|A5|A6|B4}]
[-stop_error] [-correctlong] [-kludge]
[g3file]

Minimum unique
abbreviation of option is acceptable. You may use double
hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options. You may
use white space in place of the equals sign to separate an
option name from its value.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

g3topbm
reads a Group 3 fax file with MH (Modified Huffman)
compression as input and produces a PBM image as output.

g3topbm
tolerates various deviations from the standard, so as to
recover some of the image if there was a transmission error.
One thing it tolerates is lines of varying length. The
standard requires all the lines to be the same length;
g3topbm makes the output image as wide as the longest
line in the input and pads the others on the right. It warns
you when it does this.

You can use the
stop_error option to make g3topbm insist on
valid input.

There is no
Netpbm program that understands the other G3 fax compression
methods: MR (Modified Read) and MMR (Modified Modified
Read).

Note that the
Group 3 fax file format does not include any kind of a
signature so that g3topbm might verify it’s
actually looking at a G3 file or that the compression method
is MH. The program will interpret any sequence of bytes you
give it as if it is G3 and, while typically issuing a lot of
error messages about the file not conforming to the G3 MH
format, will produce output (unless you use
-stoperror). In particular, if you feed
g3topbm an MR or MMR file, it will not tell you of
your mistake.

There are
subformats of TIFF that use the Group 3 fax encodings
inside. See tifftopnm.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
g3topbm recognizes the following command line
options: 
-reversebits

Tells g3topbm to
interpret bits least-significant first, instead of the
default most-significant first. Apparently some fax modems
do it one way and others do it the other way. If you get a
whole bunch of "bad code word" messages, try using
this option.

-stretch

This option tells
g3topbm to stretch the image vertically by
duplicating each row. This is for the low-quality
transmission mode.

-width=pixels

This option tells
g3topbm that the image is supposed to be
pixels pixels wide. If any line in it is not that
size, g3topbm issues a warning or fails, depending on
whether you specify -stop_error.

You cannot
specify both -width and -paper_size.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.33 (March 2006).

-paper_size={A3,A4,A5,A6,B4}

This option tells
g3topbm for what size paper this image is supposed to
be formatted. g3topbm uses the width of the paper the
same way as with the -width option. g3topbm
does not use the height of the paper for anything.

You cannot
specify both -width and -paper_size.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.33 (March 2006).

-stop_error

This option tells
g3topbm to fail when it finds a problem in the input.
"Fail" means it terminates with a nonzero status
code with the contents of the output file undefined.

If you
don’t specify this option, g3topbm does its
best to work around input errors and salvage as much of the
image as possible in the output image. It first tries to
resynchronize to a later line by searching for the next End
Of Line marker, skipping any lines or partial lines in
between. It saves the beginning of the line in which it
encountered the problem. If the input file ends prematurely,
g3topbm produces output containing the lines up to
where it encountered the problem.

g3topbm
issues warning messages when it continues in spite of input
errors.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.24 (August 2004). Before that,
g3topbm always failed when it encountered premature
EOF and never failed when it encountered other problems.
-correctlong

This option
helps with certain corrupted input files. Faxes often are
corrupted because of communication line errors. A
particularly annoying corruption causes a line to be much
longer than it is supposed to be. One way that can happen is
where an End of Line marker is missing, so two consecutive
lines turn into one.

Without this
option, g3topbm faithfully renders the document as
coded, so the output PBM image simply contains that long
line. This is an especially problematic corruption because
it makes the entire output image about twice as wide as it
is supposed to be. But with -correctlong,
g3topbm truncates that line so the overall effect of
the input corruption is that a line is missing rather than
that the image is twice as wide as it is supposed to be.

Specifically,
with -correctlong, the program looks at the lengths
of all the lines (which would all be the same length in an
uncorrupted G3 image) and considers the line length that
occurs the most to be the intended image width. It truncates
every line that is longer than that.

The program
warns you when corruption has caused the input image to have
lines of more than one length, whether you specify
-correctlong or not.

Note that there
is no point to specifying -correctlong if you also
specify -stop_error.

This option was
new in Netpbm 11.04 (September 2023).

-kludge

Tells g3topbm to ignore
the first few lines of the file; sometimes fax files have
some junk at the beginning.

SEE ALSO

pbmtog3(1),
tifftopnm(1), pbm(1), fax
formats(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool ’makeman’
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/g3topbm.html