GETC(3POSIX)               POSIX Programmer's Manual              GETC(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getc — get a byte from a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int getc(FILE *stream);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  getc()  function shall be equivalent to fgetc(), except that if it
       is implemented as a macro it may evaluate stream more than once, so the
       argument should never be an expression with side-effects.

RETURN VALUE
       Refer to fgetc().

ERRORS
       Refer to fgetc().

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       If  the  integer  value returned by getc() is stored into a variable of
       type char and then compared against the integer constant EOF, the  com‐
       parison may never succeed, because sign-extension of a variable of type
       char on widening to integer is implementation-defined.

       Since it may be implemented as a macro, getc() may treat incorrectly  a
       stream  argument  with side-effects. In particular, getc(*f++) does not
       necessarily work as expected. Therefore, use of this function should be
       preceded  by  "#undefgetc"  in  such  situations; fgetc() could also be
       used.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fgetc()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                         GETC(3POSIX)
