NAME

getlist - Get a
list from an NNTP server

SYNOPSIS

getlist
[-AR] [-h host] [-p port]
[list [pattern [types]]]

DESCRIPTION

getlist
obtains a list from an NNTP server and sends it to standard
output. list may be one of "active" (which
is the default value), "active.times",
"distrib.pats", or "newsgroups".
"active" contains a list of all newsgroups carried
by the server with the high and low article numbers in the
group, and the group status field. "active.times"
is a list of newsgroups, their creation times (in seconds
since epoch), and the creator of the group.
"distrib.pats" is a list of relevant distributions
and the newsgroups they apply to. "newsgroups" is
a list of newsgroups along with their short
descriptions.

For more
information on the formats of these files, see active(5),
active.times(5), distrib.pats(5) and newsgroups(5).

The listing
files other than the active file are common
extensions to the NNTP protocol and may not be available on
all servers. For instance, "counts"
"distributions", "headers",
"moderators", "motd",
"overview.fmt" and "subscriptions",
amongst other, may be available. Moreover, a uwildmat
pattern pattern may also be usable for some of these
listing files.

For more
information on the formats of these files, see
distributions(5), moderators(5), motd.news(5) and
subscriptions(5). The overview fields obtained with
"overview.fmt" are the ones for which the overview
database is consistent (see extraoverviewadvertised
in inn.conf for more information). The list obtained
with "headers" contains the fields that can be
retrieved using the HDR command (pattern can then be
either "msgid" or "range"). The list
obtained with "counts" is like the
"active" one except that the number of articles in
a newsgroup is mentioned just before the flag of this
newsgroup.

The
pattern parameter may be used with a list
value of "active", "active.times" or
"newsgroups" to limit the output. If given, only
entries corresponding to newsgroups that match the
uwildmat pattern pattern will be printed.

If the
list parameter is "active", a third
parameter, types, may also be used to restrict the
list. If given, only entries corresponding to newsgroups
with a newsgroup mode found in types will be printed.
For example, a types value of "y" would
only show unmoderated groups, and a types value of
"ym" would show all unmoderated and moderated
groups but not aliased groups or groups that disallow
postings.

OPTIONS

-A

Try to authenticate using the
username and password information in passwd.nntp(5) before
issuing the LIST command.

-h host

Connect to the server
host rather than to the value of server in
inn.conf or the value of the NNTPSERVER environment
variable.

-p port

Connect to the port
port, which is by default "119".

-R

Try to switch to nnrpd with a MODE READER command
before issuing the LIST request. It can be useful in case a
feeding access exists for the news server: more information
can be retrieved from nnrpd, compared with
innd. 

EXAMPLES

The following
command will obtain the one-line descriptions of all
newsgroups found on UUNET:

getlist -h
news.uu.net newsgroups

The following
command will show the active file entries for all moderated
comp.* groups on the default server:

getlist active
'comp.*' m

The following
command lists all groups where local postings are permitted,
are moderated or aliased:

getlist active
'*' ym=

Note that the
wildcard character "*" has to be quoted by simple
quotes to protect it from the shell.

HISTORY

Written by
Landon Curt Noll chongo [AT] toad.com> for InterNetNews.
Rewritten in POD by Russ Allbery
eagle [AT] eyrie.org>.

SEE ALSO

active(5),
active.times(5), distrib.pats(5), distributions(5),
inn.conf(5), libinn_uwildmat(3), moderators(5),
motd.news(5), newsgroups(5), nnrpd(8), passwd.nntp(5),
subscriptions(5).