GETUID(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            GETUID(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       getuid — get a real user ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       uid_t getuid(void);

DESCRIPTION
       The getuid() function shall return the real  user  ID  of  the  calling
       process.  The getuid() function shall not modify errno.

RETURN VALUE
       The getuid() function shall always be successful and no return value is
       reserved to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
   Setting the Effective User ID to the Real User ID
       The following example sets the effective user ID of the calling process
       to the real user ID.

           #include <unistd.h>
           ...
           seteuid(getuid());

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       In a conforming environment, getuid() will always succeed. It is possi‐
       ble for implementations to provide an extension where a  process  in  a
       non-conforming  environment will not be associated with a user or group
       ID. It is recommended that such implementations  return  (uid_t)-1  and
       set  errno  to  indicate such an environment; doing so does not violate
       this standard, since such an environment is already an extension.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(),  setegid(),  seteuid(),  setgid(),  se‐
       tregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       GETUID(3POSIX)
