Giftopnm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Giftopnm User Manual(1)

NAME
       giftopnm - convert a GIF file into a PNM image

SYNOPSIS
       giftopnm  [--alphaout={alpha-filename,-}]  [-verbose] [-comments] [-im‐
       age={N,all}] [-repair] [-quitearly] [GIFfile]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       This  is  a  graphics  format  converter from the GIF format to the PNM
       (i.e. PBM, PGM, or PPM) format.

       If the image contains only black and maximally bright white, the output
       is  PBM.   If  the  image contains more than those two colors, but only
       grays, the output is PGM.  If the image contains other colors, the out‐
       put is PPM.

        A  GIF  image contains rectangular pixels.  They all have the same as‐
       pect ratio, but may not be square (it's actually quite unusual for them
       not  to  be square, but it could happen).  The pixels of a Netpbm image
       are always square.  Because of the engineering complexity to do  other‐
       wise,  giftopnm converts a GIF image to a Netpbm image pixel-for-pixel.
       This means if the GIF pixels are not square, the  Netpbm  output  image
       has  the wrong aspect ratio.  In this case, giftopnm issues an informa‐
       tional message telling you to run pamscale to correct the output.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), giftopnm recognizes the
       following command line options:

       --alphaout=alpha-filename
              giftopnm  creates a PBM file containing the transparency  infor‐
              mation  from  the  input  image.  This transparency image is the
              same dimensions as the input image, and each pixel of the trans‐
              parency image tells whether the corresponding pixel of the input
              image is transparent.   Black  means  transparent;  white  means
              opaque.  If you don't specify --alphaout, giftopnm does not gen‐
              erate a transparency file, and if the input image has  a  trans‐
              parency channel, giftopnm simply discards it.

              If  you specify - as the filename, giftopnm writes the transpar‐
              ency output to Standard Output and discards the image.

              See pamcomp(1) for one way to use the transparency output file.

       -verbose
              Produce verbose output about the GIF file input.

       -comments
              With this option, giftopnm issues messages showing the GIF  com‐
              ments  (A  GIF89  stream  can contain comments in comment exten‐
              sions).

              By default, giftopnm ignores comment extensions.

       -image={N,all}
              This option identifies which image from the GIF stream you want.
              You  can  select either one image or all the images.  Select all
              the images with all.  Select one image  by  specifying  its  se‐
              quence number in the stream: 1, 2, 3, etc.

              The default is just Image 1.

              A GIF stream normally contains only one image, so you don't need
              this option.  But some streams, including  animated  GIFs,  have
              multiple images.

              When  you select multiple GIF images, the output is a PNM stream
              with multiple images.

              If you specify a single image, giftopnm must read and  partially
              validate  the  images  before that in the stream.  It may or may
              not do the same for the images after it; see -quitearly.

              The all value was added in Netpbm 10.16  (June  2003).   Earlier
              giftopnm can extract only one image.

       -repair
              This  option  makes  giftopnm try to salvage what it can from an
              invalid GIF input.

              In particular, when giftopnm detects that the GIF input  is  in‐
              valid  so that it is impossible to determine what the pixels are
              intended to be, it produces a single  arbitrary  color  for  all
              further  pixels in the image.  giftopnm processes the image from
              top to bottom, left to right, so this means the bottommost  pix‐
              els will be this padding.

              giftopnm  issues  warning  messages when it salvages an image in
              this way.

              Without this option, giftopnm fails when it detects invalid  GIF
              input.   Any  output  it produces is arbitrary, and typically is
              not a valid PNM image.

              It is fairly common for an image to be corrupted  such  that  is
              started off as a valid GIF, but had the end of the file cut off.
              An interrupted network transfer tends to do this.  In this case,
              giftopnm's  salvage  operation will produce a valid PNM image of
              the proper dimensions, but with a single arbitrary color for the
              pixels that were left out of the file.

              This  option  was  new in Netpbm 10.38 (March 2007).  From 10.32
              through 10.37, giftopnm always fails if it detects  invalid  GIF
              input.  Before 10.32, it succeeds in the case of a truncated im‐
              age, and replaces the missing pixels with arbitrary colors,  not
              necessarily all the same (The pre-10.32 behavior wasn't actually
              intended by the design).

       -quitearly
              This option makes giftopnm stop reading its input file  as  soon
              as  it  has  converted and output the images from the input that
              you requested.  By default, giftopnm reads until the end of  the
              GIF stream, ignoring any data after the images you requested.

              Two reasons not to use this option:

       •      The  input  file  is a pipe and the process that is filling that
              pipe expects the pipe to take the entire stream and will fail or
              get stuck if it doesn't.

       •      You want to validate the entire GIF stream.

              Two reasons to use this option:

       •      It  saves  the  time  and other resources to read the end of the
              stream.

       •      There are errors in the end of the  stream  that  make  giftopnm
              fail.

              This option has no effect if you also specify -image=all

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.35 (August 2006).  Before that,
              giftopnm always reads the entire stream.

RESTRICTIONS
       This does not correctly handle the Plain Text Extension  of  the  GIF89
       standard, since I did not have any example input files containing them.

SEE ALSO
       pamtogif(1),  ppmcolormask(1), pamcomp(1), http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle
       ⟨http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle⟩ , ppm(1).

AUTHOR
       Copyright (c) 1993 by David Koblas (koblas@netcom.com)

LICENSE
       As a historical note, for a long time if you used  giftopnm,  you  were
       using a patent on the LZW compression method which was owned by Unisys,
       and in all probability you did not have a license from Unisys to do so.
       Unisys  typically  asked  $5000  for  a  license for trivial use of the
       patent.  Unisys never enforced the patent against  trivial  users,  and
       made  statements  that it is much less concerned about people using the
       patent for decompression (which is what giftopnm does than for compres‐
       sion.  The patent expired in 2003.

       Rumor has it that IBM also owns a patent covering giftopnm.

       A replacement for the GIF format that has never required any patent li‐
       cense to use is the PNG format.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/giftopnm.html

netpbm documentation           13 September 2012       Giftopnm User Manual(1)
