GO-CLEAN(1)                 General Commands Manual                GO-CLEAN(1)

NAME
       go-clean - remove object files and cached files

SYNOPSIS
       go clean [-i] [-r] [-n] [-x] [packages]

DESCRIPTION
       Clean  removes  object  files  from package source directories.  The go
       command builds most objects in a temporary directory, so  go  clean  is
       mainly concerned with object files left by other tools or by manual in‐
       vocations of go build.

       If a package argument is given or the -i or -r flag is set,  clean  re‐
       moves  the  following  files from each of the source directories corre‐
       sponding to the import paths:

       _obj/  old object directory, left from Makefiles

       _test/ old test directory, left from Makefiles

       _testmain.go
              old gotest file, left from Makefiles

       test.out
              old test log, left from Makefiles

       build.out
              old test log, left from Makefiles

       *.[568ao]
              object files, left from Makefiles

       DIR(.exe)
              from go build

       DIR.test(.exe)
              from go test -c

       MAINFILE(.exe)
              from go build MAINFILE.go

       *.so   from SWIG

       In the list, DIR represents the final path element  of  the  directory,
       and  MAINFILE  is  the base name of any Go source file in the directory
       that is not included when building the package.

OPTIONS
       -i     The -i flag causes clean to remove the  corresponding  installed
              archive or binary (what ‘go install’ would create).

       -n     The  -n  flag causes clean to print the remove commands it would
              execute, but not run them.

       -r     The -r flag causes clean to be applied recursively  to  all  the
              dependencies of the packages named by the import paths.

       -x     The -x flag causes clean to print remove commands as it executes
              them.

       -cache The -cache flag causes clean  to  remove  the  entire  go  build
              cache.

       -testcache
              The  -testcache  flag causes clean to expire all test results in
              the go build cache.

       -modcache
              The -modcache flag causes clean  to  remove  the  entire  module
              download  cache, including unpacked source code of versioned de‐
              pendencies.

       -fuzzcache
              The -fuzzcache flag causes clean to remove files stored  in  the
              Go build cache for fuzz testing. The fuzzing engine caches files
              that expand code coverage, so removing  them  may  make  fuzzing
              less  effective until new inputs are found that provide the same
              coverage. These files are distinct from those stored in testdata
              directory; clean does not remove those files.

       For more about build flags, see go-build(1).

       For more about specifying packages, see go-packages(7).

AUTHOR
       This  manual  page  was  written  by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@de‐
       bian.org> and is maintained by the Debian Go  Compiler  Team  <team+go-
       compiler@tracker.debian.org> based on the output of ‘go help clean’ for
       the Debian project (and may be used by others).

                                  2022-03-15                       GO-CLEAN(1)
