GRANTPT(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           GRANTPT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       grantpt — grant access to the slave pseudo-terminal device

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int grantpt(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The grantpt() function shall change the mode and ownership of the slave
       pseudo-terminal device associated with its master pseudo-terminal coun‐
       terpart. The fildes argument is a file descriptor that refers to a mas‐
       ter  pseudo-terminal  device.  The user ID of the slave shall be set to
       the real UID of the calling process and the group ID shall be set to an
       unspecified  group ID. The permission mode of the slave pseudo-terminal
       shall be set to readable and writable by the owner, and writable by the
       group.

       The  behavior  of the grantpt() function is unspecified if the applica‐
       tion has installed a signal handler to catch SIGCHLD signals.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, grantpt() shall  return  0;  otherwise,  it
       shall return -1 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The grantpt() function may fail if:

       EACCES The  corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be ac‐
              cessed.

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid open file descriptor.

       EINVAL The fildes argument is not associated with a master  pseudo-ter‐
              minal device.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       See the RATIONALE section for posix_openpt().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       open(), posix_openpt(), ptsname(), unlockpt()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      GRANTPT(3POSIX)
