NAME

hfsutils -
tools for reading and writing Macintosh HFS volumes

SYNOPSIS

hattrib
- change HFS file or directory attributes 
hcd - change working HFS directory 
hcopy - copy files from or to an HFS volume 
hdel - delete both forks of an HFS file 
hdir - display an HFS directory in long format 
hformat - create a new HFS filesystem and make it
current 
hls - list files in an HFS directory 
hmkdir - create a new HFS directory 
hmount - introduce a new HFS volume and make it current

hpwd - print the full path to the current HFS working
directory 
hrename - rename or move an HFS file or directory

hrmdir - remove an empty HFS directory 
humount - remove an HFS volume from the list of known
volumes 
hvol - display or change the current HFS volume

hfssh -
Tcl interpreter with HFS extensions

hfs -
shell for manipulating HFS volumes 
xhfs - graphical interface for manipulating HFS
volumes

DESCRIPTION

hfsutils
is a collection of tools and programs for accessing
Macintosh HFS-formatted volumes. See the accompanying man
page for each program above for more information.

NOTES

These utilities
can manipulate HFS volumes on nearly any medium. A UNIX path
is initially specified to hmount or hformat
which gives the location of the volume. This path can be a
block device -- corresponding to, for example, a floppy
disk, CD-ROM, SCSI disk, or other device -- or it can be a
regular file containing an image of any of the above.

The medium
specified by the UNIX path may or may not contain an Apple
partition map. If partitioned, it is possible for more than
one HFS volume to be present on the medium. In this case, a
partition number must also be given which selects the
desired partition. This number refers to the nth
ordinal HFS partition on the volume. (Other, non-HFS
partitions are ignored.) Partition number 0 refers to
the entire medium, disregarding the partition map, if
any.

HFS pathnames
consist of colon-separated components. Unlike UNIX
pathnames, an HFS path which begins with a colon (e.g.
:Foo:Bar) is a relative path, and one which does not
(e.g. Foo:Bar) is an absolute path. As sole exception
to this rule, a path not containing any colons is assumed to
be relative.

Absolute
pathnames always begin with the name of the volume itself.
Any occurrence of two or more consecutive colons in a path
causes resolution of the path to ascend into parent
directories.

Most of the
command-line programs support HFS filename globbing. The
following forms of globbing are supported:

*

matches zero or more characters.

?

matches exactly one character.

[...]

matches any single character enclosed within the
brackets. A character range may be specified by using a
hypen (-). Note that matches are not case sensitive.

{...,...}

expands into the Cartesian
product of each specified substring.

\

causes the following character to be matched
literally. 

Note that since
globbing is performed by each HFS command rather than by the
UNIX shell (which knows nothing about HFS volumes), care
should always be taken to protect pathnames from the shell
by using an appropriate quoting technique. Typically it is
best to surround HFS pathnames containing glob characters
with single quotes (’).

Time stamps on
HFS volumes are interpreted as being relative to the current
time zone. This means that modification dates on HFS volumes
written in another time zone may appear to be off by some
number of hours.

Hardware
limitations prevent some systems from reading or writing
native Macintosh 800K floppy disks; only high-density 1440K
disks can be used on these systems.

The obsolete
MFS volume format is not supported by this software.

SEE ALSO

hattrib(1),
hcd(1), hcopy(1), hdel(1), hdir(1), hformat(1), hls(1),
hmkdir(1), hmount(1), hpwd(1), hrename(1), hrmdir(1),
hvol(1), hfs(1), xhfs(1)

AUTHOR

Robert Leslie
rob [AT] mars.org>