NAME

inn-secrets.conf
- Configuration data for InterNetNews secrets

DESCRIPTION

inn-secrets.conf
in pathetc is a configuration file containing general
secrets used by INN. It was added in INN 2.7.0 for the
implementation of Cancel-Lock. The intent is that new
secrets used by INN are added to that file, and that all
secrets currently stored in several other configuration
files eventually move to that file.

The
inn-secrets.conf file is not required. It currently
only serves the purpose of Cancel-Lock. If not present or
empty, the Cancel-Lock authentication system will just be
deactivated for local posts.

This file is
intended to be fairly static. Any changes made to it will
generally not affect any running programs until they
restart.

Changes in
Cancel-Lock secrets will be taken into account when new
nnrpd processes are spawned (which happens each time
a reader opens a new connection).

Blank lines and
lines starting with a number sign ("#") are
ignored. All other lines specify parameters, and are
organized in groups. The general form is:

 {

:  
}

(Any amount of
whitespace can be put after the colon and is optional.) If
the value contains embedded whitespace or any of the
characters "[]<>{}"\:;", it must be
enclosed in double quotes (""). A backslash
("\") can be used to escape quotes and backslashes
inside double quotes.  and 
are case-sensitive; "cancels" is not the same as
"Cancels" or "CANCELS".
(inn-secrets.conf groups and parameters are generally
all in lowercase.)

The two
parameters currently defined in this file have as their
value a list of strings, that is to say space-separated
elements enclosed in square brackets. Examples follow in the
documentation.

PARAMETERS

Cancel-Lock
secrets 
These secrets are used for the Cancel-Lock authentication
system described in RFC 8315. This mechanism permits
verifying that the withdrawal of an article is valid, that
is to say the poster, posting agent, moderator, or injecting
agent that processed the original article has requested to
withdraw it via the use of a cancel control article or a
Supersedes header field.

You’ll
need to build INN with version 3.3.0 or later of libcanlock
to embed Cancel-Lock support. This library is available at
https://micha.freeshell.org/libcanlock/>. The
"configure" script will automatically enable
Cancel-Lock support if it finds libcanlock; you may have to
specify the --with-canlock option to help
"configure" find it.

The
"cancels" group is defined as follows (you should
naturally use other passwords than the following ones):

cancels { 
canlockadmin: [
"9kc3ZtAACpNZRGtmYiPlbfkDacqNwPbcEfzFodc5X48g" ]

canlockuser: [
"TSrg41qEbp6AyZuQoIIHo6sUzFkBLOocJYN3KsUVdgft" ]

}

If one of the
canlockadmin or canlockuser parameters is not
an empty list, nnrpd will add information to every
posted article that will permit other news servers to later
ensure that an attempt to cancel or supersede the article is
not forged, and really originates from the authenticated
original sender or the administrator of the local
server.

If your users
are not individually authenticated or identifiable with a
unique static IP, you must not set canlockuser as
otherwise anyone would be able to cancel the articles of any
other person with the same assigned identity. If all or only
some of your users are individually authenticated or
identifiable, you can set canlockuser and make sure
to parameterize addcanlockuser to "none" in
all the access groups in readers.conf that are shared
between several different persons with the same
identity.

More
concretely, for each secret in canlockadmin,
nnrpd adds two Base64-encoded hashes to a Cancel-Lock
header field. These hashes are based on the secret and the
Message-ID of the article. If this field already exists, it
will just append the Base64-encoded hashes to its end. One
hash uses the SHA-1 algorithm (for interoperability reasons
as not all news software implement SHA-256), and the other
hash uses the mandatory SHA-256 algorithm per RFC 8315.
Besides, nnrpd will similarly add two Base64-encoded
hashes for each secret in canlockuser; these hashes
are based on the secret, the identity assigned in
readers.conf to the connection or its static IP
(depending on the setting of addcanlockuser), and the
Message-ID of the article.

When a cancel
or supersede article is posted by an authenticated user,
nnrpd will add to a Cancel-Key header field two
pre-images for each secret in canlockuser. (This is
why it is important, if you have set canlockuser, to
parameterize addcanlockuser to "none" in
all the access groups in readers.conf not
corresponding to individual persons.) Other news servers can
then hash one of these pre-images with SHA-1 or SHA-256
algorithms (one is enough) and verify that the resulted
Base64-encoded hash is the same as the one present in the
Cancel-Lock header field of the original article.
(Necessarily, the same authenticated user on the same local
server sent the original article.) When receiving articles
with a Cancel-Key header field (locally or from other
peers), innd applies that check to verify the
authenticity of the withdrawal before deciding to honour
it.

Naturally, no
pre-images for each secret in canlockadmin are added
by nnrpd. As these pre-images are not based on a user
name, only the news administrator can generate them (with
the gencancel tool shipped with INN) and then inject
the cancel or supersede request with for instance
inews. The news administrator is therefore capable to
send authenticated withdrawal requests for articles posted
by all the users of his news server, be they authenticated
or not.

After this
(little) introduction to explain what Cancel-Lock is for,
here are the two relevant parameters: 
canlockadmin

This parameter expects a list
of strings. It is unset by default (no admin hashes will be
generated).

If this
parameter is not an empty list, each provided secret will be
used to generate admin hashes.

To maximize
security, secrets should have a length of at least the
output size of the hash function used (32 octets for
SHA-256). You can for instance generate a strong secret
based on 33 random octets (so that the last character is not
systematically "=", as it happens when
Base64-encoding 32 random octets) with:

% openssl rand
-base64 33 
nfwx6FS+U/dXXXqTOTp1Z5J9glV9UpjyhUcVcsDqXSC8

and use it as
follows:

canlockadmin: [
"nfwx6FS+U/dXXXqTOTp1Z5J9glV9UpjyhUcVcsDqXSC8"
]

The purpose of
providing several secrets is when you want to rotate
secrets. For instance, if your policy is to change secrets
each year, you can use two secrets during a transition
period:

canlockadmin: [
"rH5L8geEzkNVvpAZQMJJcd4AYkpSkkx5S/4qewPDA/U="

"nfwx6FS+U/dXXXqTOTp1Z5J9glV9UpjyhUcVcsDqXSC8"
]

Withdrawals of
previously posted articles will still work with the old
secret (still added to the Cancel-Key header field).

As all posted
articles will have a Cancel-Lock header field with the admin
secret, you should also set canlockuser (and
individually authenticate the posters) because otherwise
posters may not be able to withdraw their own articles
(unless their posting agents generate Cancel-Lock header
fields themselves with their own secrets).

canlockuser

This parameter expects a list
of strings. It is unset by default (no user-specific hashes
will be generated).

The same
recommendation of more than 32 random octets applies, and
the secrets must not be the same as canlockadmin.

If this
parameter is not an empty list, each provided secret will be
used to generate hashes based on the identity assigned to
users by readers.conf or their static IP (depending
on the setting of addcanlockuser). Beware that if
your users are not individually authenticated, you must not
set canlockuser as otherwise anyone would be able to
cancel the articles of any other person with the same
assigned identity. If needed, you can deactivate the
generation of user-specific hashes in access groups shared
between several different persons with the same identity in
readers.conf by setting addcanlockuser to
"none" in these access groups (it may for instance
be the case for localhost connections, if some articles are
injected with inews from an external source).

When using
canlockuser, you should also set canlockadmin
because you may otherwise not always be able to generate the
needed hash to cancel an article posted by the users of your
news server (notably if you do not manage to find out the
identity a user had when posting the original article).

HISTORY

Documentation
written by Julien Elie for InterNetNews.

SEE ALSO

gencancel(1),
nnrpd(8), readers.conf(5).