NAME

innreport.conf
- Configuration file for innreport

DESCRIPTION

The file
pathetc/innreport.conf permits configuring the
behaviour of innreport. It consists of a series of
lines; blank lines and what follows a number sign
("#") in a line are ignored. The structure of this
file is:

section default
{ 
libpath "/path/to/libraries"; 
logpath "/path/to/logs"; 
module "innreport_inn"; 
display_conf_file "innreport-display.conf"; 
unwanted_log "unwanted.log"; 
text true; 
html true; # Enable HTML reports. 
# Other options to set. 
};

Only this
default section needs being configured. It begins
with "section default {" and ends with
"};". Each line in the section consists of an
option name followed with one or more spaces or tabulations,
its value and a semi-colon ";".

The
display_conf_file option defines the name of the
display configuration file to use. This file, located in
libpath, has the same syntax as
innreport.conf. If you want to use a custom display
configuration, just rename the default
innreport-display.conf file to another name, and set
it in display_conf_file (otherwise,
innreport-display.conf will be overwritten each time
you update INN).

Sections
defined in the display configuration file are used to
parameterize the display, how and what to report, but should
not normally be changed (unless you precisely know what you
are doing). These sections are written in a domain-specific
language not intended to be modified (you may break the
reports, especially if changing data, double,
format, primary, sort, total or
value parameters). The easiest parameters to change,
if needed, would be:

&bull;

title (the titles of sections in
innreport), 

&bull;

name (the names of the columns),

&bull;

color (the color of curves in the graphs),

&bull;

numbering (a boolean value to configure whether
each row of HTML reports is prefixed with a rank
number), 

&bull;

text, html, and skip (boolean
values to configure whether a given section should be
present in respectively text, HTML or both reports),

&bull;

top (the maximum number of values to display);
you can specify different values for text and HTML reports
with top_text and top_html.

OPTIONS

The following
options can be set in the default section of the
general configuration file innreport.conf: 
archive

Sets whether HTML pages and
graphs should be archived if HTML reports are enabled. When
this option is set to "true", which is the
default, a date will be added in the file name of each
report and each graph. Otherwise, only the latest HTML
report is kept.

Use of the
-[no]archive flag with innreport(8)
takes precedence over the configuration file.

casesensitive

When this option is set to
"true", which is the default, case sensitive
searches are done in news log files for predetermined
patterns.

Use of the
-[no]casesensitive flag with
innreport(8) takes precedence over the configuration
file.

cycle

Sets how many report files
should be kept if HTML reports are enabled and archived. The
default is "0", meaning all archives are kept. The
value "none" also means "0".

Use of the
-cycle flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over
the configuration file.

display_conf_file

Defines the display
configuration file to use, located in the directory set with
the libpath option. The default is
"innreport-display.conf".

encoding

Specifies the character set to
use in XML and Content-Type declarations of HTML reports.
The default is "ISO-8859-1".

footer

Specifies a text to append to
the end of the latest "" tag of each
HTML report, where the version of innreport is
displayed. This option is unset by default.

graph

If the Perl graphic library
GD.pm is installed and HTML reports are enabled,
graphs are also generated in PNG if supported by
"GD", which is the case in modern versions (GIF
will otherwise be generated). This option is set to
"true" by default, meaning to enable graph
generation.

Use of the
-[no]graph flag with innreport(8) takes
precedence over the configuration file.

graph_bg

Specifies the background colour
of graphs in HTML reports as an HTML hexadecimal colour
value. The default is "#FFFFFF" (white).

graph_fg

Specifies the foreground colour
of graphs in HTML reports as an HTML hexadecimal colour
value. The default is "#000000" (black).

graph_width

Sets the width in pixels of
graphs in HTML reports. The default is "550".

html

This is a mandatory option with
no default value. It serves two purposes: generating HTML
reports besides the plain text report printed to standard
output, and configuring in the sections other than
default (in the display configuration file) whether a
section of the report should be present in the HTML
output.

If set to
"true", and the -nohtml flag not given when
calling innreport, HTML reports will be generated.
These reports will not contain sections individually having
html set to "false" in the display
configuration file (by default, everything is present in the
HTML reports). Otherwise, if the -nohtml flag is
given, no HTML reports will be generated.

If set to
"false", and the -html flag not given when
calling innreport, no HTML reports will be generated.
Otherwise, if the -html flag is given, HTML reports
will be generated but only the sections individually having
html set to "true" in the display
configuration file will be present in the reports.

html_body

Specifies additional elements
to append to the "" tag of HTML
reports. This option is unset by default.

Note that using
this option leads to invalid XHTML. You should provide a
custom CSS file with the html_css_url option
instead.

html_css_url

Specifies the name of a CSS
file to use to apply a custom style to HTML reports. The
file is located in the directory set with the
html_dir option. It may also be a URL, in which case
the file may be in another location.

If unset, which
is the default, innreport creates a default
innreport.css custom style sheet in html_dir
and uses it for HTML reports.

In case you
wish to supply your own style, take a look at what is
defined in the default CSS and the HTML reports, and adapt
it for your needs. Across several innreport releases
that may change classes, make sure to keep old class
definitions for backward compatibility with previously
generated HTML reports still referring to that custom
file.

html_dir

Sets the directory for web
pages if HTML reports are enabled. The default is the value
of pathhttp as set in inn.conf.

Use of the
-dir flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

html_file_extension

Defines the file extension of
generated HTML reports, if enabled. A dot (".")
should begin the extension. The default is
".html".

You may want to
use ".xhtml" instead to let the web server serve
correct MIME type, as innreport generates
XHTML 1.1 pages.

html_footer_file

Specifies the name of a file in
html_dir whose contents will be appended just before
the "" tag of each HTML report. This
option is unset by default.

html_header_file

Specifies the name of a file in
html_dir whose contents will be appended just after
the "" tag of each HTML report. This
option is unset by default.

html-unknown

Whether to report unknown
entries from news log files in HTML reports, when set to
"true". This option takes by default the same
value as the one for text plain reports (as set with the
unknown option).

Use of the
-[no]html-unknown flag with
innreport(8) takes precedence over the configuration
file.

html_xsl_url

Specifies the name of an XSL
file to use to apply styling operations to HTML reports. The
file is located in the directory set with the
html_dir option. It may also be a URL, in which case
the file may be in another location.

This option is
unset by default. When set, a corresponding XML style sheet
declaration is added to HTML reports. It may be useful for
XHTML compliance with older browsers (see
https://www.w3.org/MarkUp/2004/xhtml-faq#ie&gt;).

More generally,
if you are interested in XSL transformation, you may want to
have a look at innreport-filter.xslt provided in the
contrib directory.

img_dir

Sets the web path for pictures
in HTML pages if HTML reports are enabled, and graphs are
wanted. The path is relative to the directory set with the
html_dir option. The default is "pics".

Use of the
-webpath flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over
the configuration file.

index

Sets the name of the index web
page if HTML reports are enabled. The default is
"index.html".

You may want to
use "index.xhtml" instead to let the web server
serve correct MIME type, as innreport generates
XHTML 1.1 pages.

Use of the
-index flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over
the configuration file.

libpath

Defines the directory in which
the Perl module set with the module option is
located. This option is mandatory, and usually set to the
same value as pathlib in inn.conf.

logpath

Defines the directory in which
the log file for newsgroups not locally carried by the news
server, as set with the unwanted_log option, is
located. This option is mandatory, and usually set to the
same value as pathlog in inn.conf.

max_unknown

How many unrecognized entries
from news log files to report, when the unknown or
html-unknown options are set. The default is
"50". Using "-1" means there is no
limit.

Use of the
-maxunrec flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

module

Defines the Perl module used by
innreport to parse and summarize log files. This
option is mandatory, and usually set to
"innreport_inn". This value should not normally be
changed unless you know exactly what you are doing. The Perl
module that will be loaded is module.pm located in
the directory set with the libpath option.

separator

Sets the separator between
hours, minutes and seconds in file names if HTML reports are
enabled and archived. The default is "." as
":" may not be properly read by all web browsers.
Be careful not to use "/" as a separator,
and to use only a valid file name character.

Use of the
-separator flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

text

This is a mandatory option with
no default value.

If set to
"true", innreport will print its text
report to standard output. This report will not contain
sections individually having text set to
"false" in the display configuration file (by
default, everything is present in the text report).

If set to
"false", innreport will only print to
standard output the sections individually having text
set to "true" in the display configuration file
(by default, the text report will be empty).

title

Specifies the text to use as
first words of text and HTML reports as well as in the title
of HTML reports. By default, "Daily Usenet report"
is used.

transparent

If set to "true", the
background of generated graphs in HTML reports will be
transparent. The default is "false".

unknown

Whether to report unknown
entries from news log files in plain text reports, when set
to "true". This option is enabled by default.

Use of the
-[no]unknown flag with innreport(8)
takes precedence over the configuration file.

unwanted_log

Defines the name of the file
used by innreport to maintain a count of the number
of articles that were rejected because they were posted to
newsgroups that do not exist in the active file of
the news server. This file is updated by innreport
while processing the news.notice log file and it is
maintained in reverse numeric order (the most popular
rejected group first).

This option is
mandatory, and usually set to "unwanted.log". This
value should not normally be changed unless you know exactly
what you are doing. The file is located in the directory set
with the logpath option.

Note that
logtrash has to be set to true in inn.conf for
this file to be generated.

HISTORY

Written by
Julien Elie for InterNetNews.

SEE ALSO

innreport(8).