IPCRM(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             IPCRM(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       ipcrm — remove an XSI message queue, semaphore set,  or  shared  memory
       segment identifier

SYNOPSIS
       ipcrm [-q msgid|-Q msgkey|-s semid|-S semkey|-m shmid|-M shmkey]...

DESCRIPTION
       The  ipcrm  utility shall remove zero or more message queues, semaphore
       sets, or shared memory segments. The interprocess communication facili‐
       ties to be removed are specified by the options.

       Only  a  user with appropriate privileges shall be allowed to remove an
       interprocess communication facility that was not created by or owned by
       the user invoking ipcrm.

OPTIONS
       The  ipcrm  utility  shall  conform  to  the Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -q msgid  Remove the message queue identifier msgid from the system and
                 destroy  the message queue and data structure associated with
                 it.

       -m shmid  Remove the shared memory identifier shmid  from  the  system.
                 The  shared memory segment and data structure associated with
                 it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       -s semid  Remove the semaphore identifier semid from the system and de‐
                 stroy  the  set  of  semaphores and data structure associated
                 with it.

       -Q msgkey Remove the message queue identifier, created with key msgkey,
                 from the system and destroy the message queue and data struc‐
                 ture associated with it.

       -M shmkey Remove the shared memory identifier, created with key shmkey,
                 from the system. The shared memory segment and data structure
                 associated with it shall be destroyed after the last detach.

       -S semkey Remove the semaphore identifier,  created  with  key  semkey,
                 from  the  system  and destroy the set of semaphores and data
                 structure associated with it.

OPERANDS
       None.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment  variables  shall  affect  the  execution  of
       ipcrm:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       ipcs

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, msgctl(), semctl(),  shm‐
       ctl()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        IPCRM(1POSIX)
