ISALNUM(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           ISALNUM(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       isalnum, isalnum_l — test for an alphanumeric character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ctype.h>

       int isalnum(int c);
       int isalnum_l(int c, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For isalnum(): The functionality described on this  reference  page  is
       aligned  with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements
       described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The isalnum() and isalnum_l() functions shall test whether c is a char‐
       acter of class alpha or digit in the current locale, or in  the  locale
       represented by locale, respectively; see the Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale.

       The c argument is an int, the value of which the application shall  en‐
       sure  is representable as an unsigned char or equal to the value of the
       macro EOF. If the argument has any other value, the behavior  is  unde‐
       fined.

       The  behavior is undefined if the locale argument to isalnum_l() is the
       special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale  object
       handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The  isalnum()  and isalnum_l() functions shall return non-zero if c is
       an alphanumeric character; otherwise, they shall return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To ensure applications  portability,  especially  across  natural  lan‐
       guages,  only  these functions and the functions in the reference pages
       listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classifica‐
       tion.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isalpha(),  isblank(),  iscntrl(), isdigit(), isgraph(), islower(), is‐
       print(), ispunct(), isspace(), isupper(), isxdigit(), setlocale(), use‐
       locale()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  7,  Locale,
       <ctype.h>, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      ISALNUM(3POSIX)
