ISCSI(4) BSD Kernel Interfaces Manual ISCSI(4)

NAME

iscsi &mdash; iSCSI
initiator

SYNOPSIS

To compile this driver into the
kernel, place the following line in the kernel configuration
file:

device
iscsi

Alternatively,
to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the
following line in loader.conf(5):

iscsi_load="YES"

DESCRIPTION

The iscsi subsystem
provides the kernel component of an iSCSI initiator,
responsible for implementing the Full Feature Phase of the
iSCSI protocol. The initiator is the iSCSI client, which
connects to an iSCSI target, providing local access to a
remote block device. The userland component is provided by
iscsid(8) and both the kernel and userland are configured
using iscsictl(8).

SYSCTL VARIABLES

The following variables are
available as both sysctl(8) variables and loader(8)
tunables:

kern.iscsi.debug

Verbosity level for log
messages from the iscsi driver. Set to 0 to disable
logging or 1 to warn about potential problems. Larger values
enable debugging output. Defaults to 1.

kern.iscsi.ping_timeout

The number of seconds to wait
for the target to respond to a NOP-Out PDU. In the event
that there is no response within that time the session gets
forcibly restarted. Set to 0 to disable sending NOP-Out
PDUs. Defaults to 5.

kern.iscsi.iscsid_timeout

The number of seconds to wait
for iscsid(8) to establish a session. After that time
iscsi will abort and retry. Defaults to 60.

kern.iscsi.login_timeout

The number of seconds to wait
for a login attempt to succeed. After that time iscsi
will abort and retry. Defaults to 60.

kern.iscsi.maxtags

The maximum number of
outstanding IO requests. Defaults to 255.

kern.iscsi.fail_on_disconnection

Controls the behavior after an
iSCSI connection has been dropped due to network problems.
When set to 1, a dropped connection causes the iSCSI device
nodes to be destroyed. After reconnecting, they will be
created again. By default, the device nodes are left intact.
While the connection is down all input/output operations are
suspended, to be retried after the connection is
reestablished.

SEE ALSO

iser(4), iscsi.conf(5),
iscsictl(8), iscsid(8)

HISTORY

The iscsi subsystem first
appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.

AUTHORS

The iscsi subsystem was
developed by Edward Tomasz Napierala
trasz [AT] FreeBSD.org> under sponsorship from the
FreeBSD Foundation.

BSD May 28,
2017 BSD