ISDIGIT(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           ISDIGIT(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       isdigit, isdigit_l — test for a decimal digit

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ctype.h>

       int isdigit(int c);
       int isdigit_l(int c, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For isdigit(): The functionality described on this  reference  page  is
       aligned  with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements
       described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The isdigit() and isdigit_l() functions shall test whether c is a char‐
       acter of class digit in the current locale, or  in  the  locale  repre‐
       sented  by  locale,  respectively;  see  the Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale.

       The c argument is an int, the value of which the application shall  en‐
       sure  is  a character representable as an unsigned char or equal to the
       value of the macro EOF. If the argument has any other value, the behav‐
       ior is undefined.

       The  behavior is undefined if the locale argument to isdigit_l() is the
       special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale  object
       handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The isdigit() and isdigit_l() functions shall return non-zero if c is a
       decimal digit; otherwise, they shall return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To ensure applications  portability,  especially  across  natural  lan‐
       guages,  only  these functions and the functions in the reference pages
       listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classifica‐
       tion.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       isalnum(),  isalpha(),  isblank(), iscntrl(), isgraph(), islower(), is‐
       print(), ispunct(), isspace(), isupper(), isxdigit()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  7,  Locale,
       <ctype.h>, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      ISDIGIT(3POSIX)
