ISWSPACE(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          ISWSPACE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       iswspace, iswspace_l — test for a white-space wide-character code

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswspace(wint_t wc);
       int iswspace_l(wint_t wc, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For iswspace(): The functionality described on this reference  page  is
       aligned  with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements
       described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  iswspace()  and  iswspace_l() functions shall test whether wc is a
       wide-character code representing a character of class space in the cur‐
       rent  locale, or in the locale represented by locale, respectively; see
       the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale.

       The wc argument is a wint_t, the value of which the  application  shall
       ensure  is  a wide-character code corresponding to a valid character in
       the locale used by the function, or equal to the  value  of  the  macro
       WEOF. If the argument has any other value, the behavior is undefined.

       The behavior is undefined if the locale argument to iswspace_l() is the
       special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale  object
       handle.

RETURN VALUE
       The  iswspace()  and iswspace_l() functions shall return non-zero if wc
       is a white-space wide-character code; otherwise, they shall return 0.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       To ensure applications  portability,  especially  across  natural  lan‐
       guages,  only  these functions and the functions in the reference pages
       listed in the SEE ALSO section should be used for character classifica‐
       tion.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       iswalnum(), iswalpha(), iswcntrl(), iswctype(), iswdigit(), iswgraph(),
       iswlower(), iswprint(),  iswpunct(),  iswupper(),  iswxdigit(),  setlo‐
       cale(), uselocale()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 7, Locale, <lo‐
       cale.h>, <wctype.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     ISWSPACE(3POSIX)
