Lintian::Spelling(3)        Debian Package Checker        Lintian::Spelling(3)

NAME
       Lintian::Spelling -- Lintian spell checks shared between multiple
       scripts

SYNOPSIS
           use Lintian::Spelling qw(check_spelling);

DESCRIPTION
       This module provides functions to do some Lintian checks that need to
       be done in multiple places.  There are certain low-level checks, such
       as validating a maintainer name and e-mail address or checking
       spelling, which apply in multiple situations and should be done in
       multiple checks scripts or in checks scripts and the Lintian front-end.

       The functions provided by this module issue tags directly, usually
       either taking the tag name to issue as an argument or dynamically
       constructing the tag name based on function parameters.  The caller is
       responsible for ensuring that all tags are declared in the relevant
       *.desc file with proper descriptions and other metadata.  The possible
       tags issued by each function are described in the documentation for
       that function.

FUNCTIONS
       check_spelling(TEXT,[ EXCEPTIONS,] CODEREF)
           Performs a spelling check of TEXT.  Call CODEREF once for each
           unique misspelling with the following arguments:

           The misspelled word/phrase
           The correct word/phrase

           If EXCEPTIONS is given, it will be used as an array ref of
           exceptions.  Any lowercase word appearing as a key of that array
           will never be considered a spelling mistake (exception being if it
           is a part of a multiword misspelling).

           Returns the number of spelling mistakes found in TEXT.

       check_spelling_picky(TEXT, CODEREF)
           Performs a spelling check of TEXT.  Call CODEREF once for each
           unique misspelling with the following arguments:

           The misspelled word/phrase
           The correct word/phrase

           This method performs some pickier corrections - such as checking
           for common capitalization mistakes - which would are not included
           in check_spelling as they are not appropriate for some files, such
           as changelogs.

           Returns the number of spelling mistakes found in TEXT.

AUTHOR
       Originally written by Russ Allbery <rra@debian.org> for Lintian.  Based
       on code from checks scripts by Marc Brockschmidt and Richard Braakman.

SEE ALSO
       lintian(1)

Lintian v2.116.3                  2023-02-05              Lintian::Spelling(3)
