NAME

maildist,
mailhelp, maillist, mailpatch - mailagent&rsquo;s
commands

SYNOPSIS

maildist
address system [ version ] 
mailhelp [ address ] 
maillist [ address ] 
mailpatch address system version patchlist

DESCRIPTION

These commands
are not intended to be run directly by a user. They may
appear in any mail whose subject is set to Command.
Such a mail will be processed by the mailagent(1),
which will extract all lines beginning with @SH,
followed by one of the above commands. The mailagent first
sets environment variables that will be used by every
commands.

Maildist
is used to mail a whole distribution to the given address.
The version number may be omitted if the system has no
version specified !! Maildist looks for the
Spool/distribs file to find where the distribution is
located. If it has been archived, the file name extension is
used to guess how the archive will be restored:

.cpio

archive is a cpio archive

.tar

archive is in tar format

.cpio.Z

compressed cpio archive

.tar.Z

compressed tar archive

Note that on
file systems with short file names, the final .Z
extension could be dropped. Therefore, compressed archives
must be explicitly stated in the Spool/distribs
file.

Once the
directory is found (or extracted), maildist looks for
a .package file. If one is found, then it is assumed
this distribution is under control of the dist 3.0 package,
and the makedist command is called to actually mirror
the source tree (makedist being part of dist 3.0).

Otherwise, it
looks for a MANIFEST file. If it finds one, only the
files listed therein will be sent. Otherwise, all the files
will be sent, excepted the binary executables and object
files, the RCS sub-directories or RCS files, the private
U subdirectory and the .package file, any
core file or files in a bugs subdirectory.

Then, the
following algorithm is used: if no RCS file is found, the
file is sent as-is. Otherwise, we look for a defined
&rsquo;lastpat&rsquo; symbol. If it is found, the
corresponding revision is checked-out and sent. Otherwise,
the last-revision on the default branch is exctracted,
provided that the corresponding working file is not
found.

The
maildist command will not work if the system is
tagged as an old one (with an o in the patches column
of the distribs file). A message will be sent back to
the user, explaining that only patches are available.

Mailhelp
sends help to the address (if omitted, the return path of
the mail is used). The help text is found in
Spool/agenthelp. It should have been correctly set in
the installation procedure, as explained in the
mailagent(1) manual page.

Maillist
sends the list of available distributions, with current
patchlevels if necessary. The Spool/distribs and
Spool/proglist files are both used to build the
list.

Mailpatch
sends one or more patches for a maintained distribution. The
directory or the archive is found by scanning
Spool/distribs. The bugs sub-directory must
then hold the available patches. The patches may be stored
in compressed form (with the ending .Z), as
mailpatch knows about them and will uncompress the
patch before sending.

Patches for old
systems are kept in a separate directory, either in normal
or in compressed form. If the version number of the old
system is x.y, then the directory must be named
bugs-x.y and placed in the root directory of the
system, just like bugs is.

Whenever the
user asks for an old system, mailpatch inserts a
little note giving the latest version number for that
system.

NOTE

For a more
accurate description of these commands (user&rsquo;s point
of vue), you may want to have a look at the help file or
send help to yourself using the mailhelp command.

FORWARDING

When the author
of a package wishes to relinquish all maintenance duty, he
is most often stuck by the weight of the past: Configure
scripts have his e-mail address hardwired (see unit
MailAuthor.U) and Command messages for package registration
and/or patch requests will continue to reach him.

The answer to
that is to leave a .forward file at the top of the
package tree and commands will automatically forge new
requests and forward them to the address listed in the
.forward file. Now the recipient surely needs a mailagent at
the other end to deal with forwarded requests!

Only plain
e-mail address(es) are allowed in the .forward. The
"|command" processing hook is not supported, since
it&rsquo;s not sendmail which interprets that file
but the command itself.

Forwarding
applies to maildist, mailpatch and
package commands only.

FILES

~/.mailagent

configuration file for
mailagent. 

/usr/share/mailagent

directory holding templates and
samples.

Spool/agenthelp

help file

Spool/distribs

distribution list

Spool/proglist

comments for available distributions

Spool/plsave

records patchlevel of archived distributions

Log/agentlog

mailagent&rsquo;s log file

BUGS

The
proglist file ought to make a distinction between
different versions of a same system.

AUTHOR

Raphael
Manfredi Raphael_Manfredi [AT] pobox.com>

SEE ALSO

mailagent(1),
package(1).