MATE-PANEL(1)               General Commands Manual              MATE-PANEL(1)

NAME
       mate-panel - The Panel for the MATE Desktop Environment

SYNOPSIS
       mate-panel [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       The mate-panel program provides the panels for the the MATE Desktop En-
       vironment. It is the area on your desktop from which you can run appli-
       cations  and  applets, and perform other tasks. New applets may also be
       installed ,added to, or removed from the panels.

       By default, mate-panel typically creates a panel  on  the  top  of  the
       screen  with  applets such as a Menu Bar, Notification Area, and Clock;
       While creating a second panel on the bottom of the screen with a Window
       List  and  a  Workspace Switcher. Panels can be created, deleted, moved
       around the desktop, and to other monitors.

       This manual page documents the mate-panel command.

OPTIONS
       --replace
              Replace a currently running instance of mate-panel.

       --reset
              Reset the panel configuration to the default setting.

       --run-dialog
              Open the "Run Application" dialog, also accessible  by  pressing
              ALT+F2.

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use.

       -?, -h, --help
              Print standard command line options.

       --help-all
              Print all command line options.

       This program also accepts the standard GTK options.

BUGS
   Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at:
       http://github.com/mate-desktop/mate-panel/issues

AUTHORS
   This Man Page has been written for the MATE Desktop Environment by:
       Adam Erdman <hekel@archlinux.info> (2014)

SEE ALSO
   Mate  Panel  documentation  can  be found under "Help" by right-clicking on
       mate-panel.
       Further information may also be  available  at:  http://wiki.mate-desk-
       top.org/docs

       mate-panel-test-applets(1)

MATE Desktop Environment        4 February 2014                  MATE-PANEL(1)
