MBSTOWCS(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          MBSTOWCS(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mbstowcs — convert a character string to a wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       size_t mbstowcs(wchar_t *restrict pwcs, const char *restrict s,
           size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The mbstowcs() function shall convert a sequence of characters that be‐
       gins in the initial shift state from the array pointed to by s  into  a
       sequence of corresponding wide-character codes and shall store not more
       than n wide-character codes into the array  pointed  to  by  pwcs.   No
       characters  that  follow  a  null byte (which is converted into a wide-
       character code with value 0) shall be examined or converted. Each char‐
       acter  shall  be converted as if by a call to mbtowc(), except that the
       shift state of mbtowc() is not affected.

       No more than n elements shall be modified in the array  pointed  to  by
       pwcs.   If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behav‐
       ior is undefined.

       The behavior of this function shall be affected by the  LC_CTYPE  cate‐
       gory  of  the  current  locale.   If pwcs is a null pointer, mbstowcs()
       shall return the length required to convert the entire array regardless
       of the value of n, but no values are stored.

RETURN VALUE
       If  an  invalid  character  is  encountered,  mbstowcs()  shall  return
       (size_t)-1 and shall set errno to indicate the error.

       Otherwise, mbstowcs() shall return the number  of  the  array  elements
       modified  (or  required if pwcs is null), not including a terminating 0
       code, if any. The array shall not be zero-terminated if the  value  re‐
       turned is n.

ERRORS
       The mbstowcs() function shall fail if:

       EILSEQ An  invalid  character sequence is detected. In the POSIX locale
              an [EILSEQ] error cannot occur since all byte values  are  valid
              characters.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mblen(), mbtowc(), wctomb(), wcstombs()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     MBSTOWCS(3POSIX)
