MEMCCPY(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           MEMCCPY(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       memccpy — copy bytes in memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <string.h>

       void *memccpy(void *restrict s1, const void *restrict s2,
           int c, size_t n);

DESCRIPTION
       The memccpy() function shall copy bytes from memory area  s2  into  s1,
       stopping after the first occurrence of byte c (converted to an unsigned
       char) is copied, or after n bytes are copied, whichever comes first. If
       copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is unde‐
       fined.

RETURN VALUE
       The memccpy() function shall return a pointer to  the  byte  after  the
       copy  of  c  in s1, or a null pointer if c was not found in the first n
       bytes of s2.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The memccpy() function does not check for the overflow of the receiving
       memory area.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <string.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      MEMCCPY(3POSIX)
