MKDIR(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             MKDIR(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       mkdir — make directories

SYNOPSIS
       mkdir [-p] [-m mode] dir...

DESCRIPTION
       The mkdir utility shall create the directories specified by  the  oper‐
       ands, in the order specified.

       For  each  dir operand, the mkdir utility shall perform actions equiva‐
       lent to the mkdir() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, called with the following arguments:

        1. The dir operand is used as the path argument.

        2. The  value  of  the  bitwise-inclusive  OR of S_IRWXU, S_IRWXG, and
           S_IRWXO is used as the mode argument. (If the -m option  is  speci‐
           fied,  the  value  of the mkdir() mode argument is unspecified, but
           the directory shall at no time have  permissions  less  restrictive
           than the -m mode option-argument.)

OPTIONS
       The  mkdir  utility  shall  conform  to  the Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following options shall be supported:

       -m mode   Set the file permission bits of the  newly-created  directory
                 to  the  specified mode value. The mode option-argument shall
                 be the same as the mode operand defined for the  chmod  util‐
                 ity.  In the symbolic_mode strings, the op characters '+' and
                 '-' shall be interpreted relative to an assumed initial  mode
                 of  a=rwx; '+' shall add permissions to the default mode, '-'
                 shall delete permissions from the default mode.

       -p        Create any missing intermediate pathname components.

                 For each dir operand that does not name  an  existing  direc‐
                 tory, before performing the actions described in the DESCRIP‐
                 TION above, the mkdir utility shall create any pathname  com‐
                 ponents  of the path prefix of dir that do not name an exist‐
                 ing directory by performing actions equivalent to first call‐
                 ing the mkdir() function with the following arguments:

                  1. A  pathname naming the missing pathname component, ending
                     with a trailing <slash> character, as the path argument

                  2. The value zero as the mode argument

                 and then calling the chmod() function with the following  ar‐
                 guments:

                  1. The same path argument as in the mkdir() call

                  2. The  value  (S_IWUSR|S_IXUSR|~filemask)&0777  as the mode
                     argument, where filemask is the file mode  creation  mask
                     of  the  process  (see  the  System  Interfaces volume of
                     POSIX.1‐2017, umask())

                 Each dir operand that names an existing  directory  shall  be
                 ignored without error.

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       dir       A pathname of a directory to be created.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The  following  environment  variables  shall  affect  the execution of
       mkdir:

       LANG      Provide a default value for  the  internationalization  vari‐
                 ables  that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions vol‐
                 ume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization  Vari‐
                 ables  for  the  precedence of internationalization variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override  the  values  of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to  standard  er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    All the specified directories were created successfully,  or  the
             -p  option was specified and all the specified directories either
             already existed or were created successfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The default file mode for directories is a=rwx (777  on  most  systems)
       with selected permissions removed in accordance with the file mode cre‐
       ation mask. For intermediate pathname components created by mkdir,  the
       mode is the default modified by u+wx so that the subdirectories can al‐
       ways be created regardless of the file mode creation mask; if different
       ultimate permissions are desired for the intermediate directories, they
       can be changed afterwards with chmod.

       Note that some of the requested directories may have been created  even
       if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The System V -m option was included to control the file mode.

       The  System  V -p option was included to create any needed intermediate
       directories and to complement the functionality provided by  rmdir  for
       removing  directories in the path prefix as they become empty.  Because
       no error is produced if any path component already exists, the  -p  op‐
       tion is also useful to ensure that a particular directory exists.

       The  functionality of mkdir is described substantially through a refer‐
       ence to the  mkdir()  function  in  the  System  Interfaces  volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017. For example, by default, the mode of the directory is af‐
       fected by the file mode creation mask in accordance with the  specified
       behavior  of  the mkdir() function. In this way, there is less duplica‐
       tion of effort required for describing details of  the  directory  cre‐
       ation.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       chmod, rm, rmdir, umask

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1‐2017, mkdir(), umask()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        MKDIR(1POSIX)