NAN(3POSIX)                POSIX Programmer's Manual               NAN(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       nan, nanf, nanl — return quiet NaN

SYNOPSIS
       #include <math.h>

       double nan(const char *tagp);
       float nanf(const char *tagp);
       long double nanl(const char *tagp);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       The function call nan("n-char-sequence") shall be equivalent to:

           strtod("NAN(n-char-sequence)", (char **) NULL);

       The function call nan("") shall be equivalent to:

           strtod("NAN()", (char **) NULL)

       If  tagp  does  not point to an n-char sequence or an empty string, the
       function call shall be equivalent to:

           strtod("NAN", (char **) NULL)

       Function calls to nanf() and nanl() are equivalent to the corresponding
       function calls to strtof() and strtold().

RETURN VALUE
       These  functions  shall  return a quiet NaN, if available, with content
       indicated through tagp.

       If the implementation does not  support  quiet  NaNs,  these  functions
       shall return zero.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strtod()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <math.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                          NAN(3POSIX)
