NAME

Network Audio
System - a portable, network-transparent audio system

SYNOPSIS

The Network
Audio System service is a network-transparent system
developed at Network Computing Devices for playing,
recording, and manipulating audio data over a network. It
uses the client/server model to separate application code
from the software drivers needed to control specific audio
input and output devices.

DESCRIPTION

The Network
Audio System service provides applications with the ability
to send and receive audio data such as voice, sound effects,
and music in a network environment. A audio server inside
the desktop terminal or personal computer controls the
various input and output devices in response to messages
sent from client programs running on other hosts.

A variety of
utility programs are provided that can be used to play or
record audio using shell scripts or command-line procedures.
More ambitious applications can communicate directly with
the audio server using a C-language programming library.

The Network
Audio System service supports a variety of the common
formats used to store sound data. Audio inputs and outputs
can run at a any of a range of sampling rates. The audio
server automatically converts all data to the designed
format or rate.

Streams of data
from multiple inputs can be mixed together and directed to
any attached output device. Sounds that are used many times
can be stored in the server so that they do not need to be
transmitted over the network each time they are played.
Furthermore, inputs can be hooked directly to outputs (for
example, a CD player can be connected to a set of speakers)
so that data can be played without requiring any client
intervention or network traffic.

AUDIO SERVER NAMES

Each audio
server has a name that is used by applications in
establishing a connection. The format of the name depends
upon the type of network being used. In TCP/IP environments,
audio server names look like:

tcp/hostname:portnum

where hostname is the
name or numeric IP address of the desktop machine to be
contacted and portnum is the port number on which the
server is listening. If the &rsquo;&rsquo;tcp/&rsquo;&rsquo;
prefix is not given, 8000 is automatically added to
portnum so that the audio server name is compatible
with the X Window System display name.

In DECnet environments, audio
server names look like:

decnet/nodename::num

where nodename is the
name or numeric DECnet address of the desktop machine to be
contacted and num is the DECnet task
AUDIO$num. If the &rsquo;&rsquo;decnet/&rsquo;&rsquo;
prefix is omitted, it is automatically added so that the
audio server name is compatible with the X Window System
display name.

Most audio utilities accept a
command line argument -audio servername for
specifying the audio server to be contacted.

% auinfo -audio
tcp/ncdunit:8000

If no server is specified on the
command line, the AUDIOSERVER environment variable is
checked to see if a name has been stored there. Otherwise,
the DISPLAY environment variable used by X Window System
applications is checked and the corresponding audio server
is used.

SAMPLE PROGRAMS

Several sample
programs that use the Network Audio System service are
provided by NCD:

auplay

This program simply plays the files listed on its
command line. It is typically used from shell scripts,
command-line procedures, or other programs that just need to
&rsquo;&rsquo;dump&rsquo;&rsquo; sound data to the audio
server. 

audemo

This program allows the user to select and play
pre-recorded sound files or to record new sound files. It
provides a simple control panel for dynamically changing the
volume while a sound is being played and for aborting a
sound. 

audial

This program generates North American telephone touch
tones correspond to a given string. audial can also
recognize touch tones and produce the corresponding
string. 

autool

This program is compatible with the Sun audiotool
program and is typically used to play prerecorded sound
files. Unlike auplay it provides a graphical
interface to allow the user to replay or cancel the
data. 

auinfo

This program lists information describing the
capabilities of an audio server.

auctl

This program can be used to change various device
parameters. 

auscope

This program is an audio protocol filter that can be
used to view the network packets being sent between an
application and an audio server.

aupanel

This program provides an X-based window-oriented
interface allowing the user to adjust the attributes of the
devices provided by the Network Audio System service.

auedit

This program provides an X-based window-oriented
interface allowing the user to edit audio files.

auconvert

This program allows the user to
perform various conversion operations on sound files.

auphone

This program provides an X-based window-oriented
interface allowing two-way real time voice communication
between two audio servers.

aurecord

This program is used to record
audio data from an audio server into a file.

auwave

This program provides an X-based window-oriented
interface demonstrating the use of waveform elements.

AUDIO FILES

The audio
programming library and utility programs can be used to read
and write files in any of the following file formats:

Sun/NeXT

These files typically have a
&rsquo;.au&rsquo; or &rsquo;.snd&rsquo; extension. They are
usually produced by Sun or NeXT workstations.

Creative Labs

These files typically have a
&rsquo;.voc&rsquo; extension. They are usually produced by
by Soundblaster audio cards on IBM PC compatible
computers.

Microsoft WAVE

These files typically have a
&rsquo;.wav&rsquo; extension. They are usually produced by
IBM PC compatible computers.

AIFF

These files typically have an &rsquo;.aiff&rsquo; or
&rsquo;.aif&rsquo; extension. They are usually produced by
SGI workstations or Apple computers.

Amiga IFF/8SVX

These files typically have an
&rsquo;.iff&rsquo; extension.

Due to the
nature of the file formats, only the Sun/NeXT file format
can be piped through standard input and/or standard output.
The convention for specifying standard input or standard
output is to use a hyphen ("-") as the file
name.

PROGRAMMING

Application
developers may create their own audio clients using the
Network Audio System programming library.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

The following
environment variables are used by Network Audio System
programs: 
AUDIOSERVER

This specifies the name of
default audio server to contact if no name is explicitly
given on the command line.

DISPLAY

This specifies the name of an X Window System display
that should be assumed to also have a corresponding Network
Audio System server.

SEE ALSO

auplay(1),
audemo(1), audial(1), autool(1), auinfo(1), auctl(1),
auscope(1), aupanel(1), auedit(1), auconvert(1), auphone(1),
aurecord(1), auwave(1)

Network
Audio System Overview and Programmers Guide

COPYRIGHT

The following
copyright and permission notice applies to all files in the
Network Audio System application programming libraries and
example programs provided in source form by Network
Computing Devices:

Copyright 1993,
1994 Network Computing Devices, Inc.

Permission to
use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without
fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
that the name Network Computing Devices, Inc. not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this
software without specific, written prior permission.

THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED &rsquo;AS-IS&rsquo;. NETWORK COMPUTING DEVICES,
INC., DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL NETWORK COMPUTING
DEVICES, INC., BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER,
INCLUDING SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF, AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER IN AN
ACTION IN CONTRACT, TORT OR NEGLIGENCE, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

TRADEMARKS

NCD, NCD
Display Station, and NCDware are all trademarks of Network
Computing Devices, Inc.

X Window System
is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

AUTHORS

Greg Renda, Jim
Fulton, David Lemke