NAME

ovsqlite-util -
Overview manipulation utility for ovsqlite

SYNOPSIS

ovsqlite-util
[-AFghioO] [-a article] [-n
newsgroup] [-p path]

DESCRIPTION

ovsqlite-util
is an administrative interface to the ovsqlite overview
method for INN. It only works on ovsqlite overview
databases, not on any other type of INN overview. (See
dedicated ovdb_stat(8) and tdx-util(8) programs for ovdb and
tradindexed overview methods.) It allows the administrator
to dump various information about the internal state of the
overview, audit it for errors, and fix these errors.

To audit the
entire overview database for problems, use -A. The
checks can take an extended period of time, depending on the
number of newsgroups and articles present in the overview
database. Any problems found will be reported to standard
error. Use -F to correct the errors found.

It is safe to
run this utility while the server is running. In case fixes
should be made to the database (when using the -F
flag), ovsqlite-util will properly pause the server
before performing its operations, and then resume it.

The number of
overview records stored in the database can be obtained with
the "inndf -n" command.

As
ovsqlite-util directly opens the ovsqlite overview
database, it may take a longer time to complete when INN is
running owing to the fact that ovsqlite-server may
hold locks on certain tables, in which case
ovsqlite-util just waits for the locks to be
released. (The transtimelimit parameter in
ovsqlite.conf controls the duration of a transaction,
so you may check you have not set a too high value.)

REQUIREMENTS

The
"DBI" Perl module with the "DBD::SQLite"
driver must be installed for this program to work. They are
present in most distributions as a package named like
"libdbd-sqlite3-perl", "perl-DBD-SQLite"
or "p5-DBD-SQLite". They can also be directly
installed from CPAN ("DBI" and
"DBD-SQLite" distributions available at
https://metacpan.org/dist/DBI> and
https://metacpan.org/dist/DBD-SQLite>).

Naturally, an
ovsqlite overview database also needs being in use, as
detailed in the ovsqlite(5) manual page.

OPTIONS

-a
article

The article number or numbers
to act on. article is a valid NNTP range, meaning
that it can be either a single article number or a range of
article numbers (like "1-5"). Either the start or
the end (or both) of the range may be omitted, in which case
they will be set to the first or last article number in the
group. Passing "-" for article is therefore
equivalent to not using the -a option at all.

Only useful in
combination with the -g, -o and -O
options to dump overview information.

-A

Audit the entire overview database for problems.
Currently, only one consistency check is performed: the
verification that the low water mark, the high water mark
and the article count of each newsgroup match the reality of
articles present in overview. No changes will be made to the
database, but problems will be reported to standard
error. 

-F

Audit the entire overview database for problems, fixing
them as they’re detected where possible. This runs the
same checks as the -A flag, and fixes the problems
found. Using this option takes care of pausing and resuming
INN so that the overview data are not changed by another
process during the operations.

To see what
would be changed by -F, run ovsqlite-util with
-A first.

-g

Dump overall overview
information for a particular group. The fields are, in
order, the article number, the length of the overview data,
the time (in seconds since epoch) when the article arrived
on the server, the time (in seconds since epoch) when the
article should expire based on its Expires header field (or
0 if there is no Expires header field), and the storage API
token of the article.

If this option
is given, the -n option must also be given to specify
the newsgroup on which to act.

-i

Dump newsgroup-related overview
information from the database. This contains similar
information to the server active file, such as high
and low water marks and moderation status, and is the
information that nnrpd hands out to clients.

The fields are,
in order, the newsgroup name, the high water mark, the low
water mark, the count of articles in the group, the group
status, the time (in seconds since epoch) when that
newsgroup was last expired (or 0 if expireover
hasn’t run on it yet), and the deletion status of that
newsgroup (0 if not marked for removal during the next
expiration, and a positive value otherwise).

A particular
newsgroup can be specified with the -n option. If
-n is not given, the entire master index will be
dumped.

-n newsgroup

Specify the newsgroup on which
to act, required for the -g, -o, and -O
options, and optional for the -i option.

-o

Dump the overview information for a newsgroup, in the
same format as it would be returned to clients but with one
modification. Appended to the end of each entry will be four
additional pieces of data: the article number according to
overview information labelled with "Article:", the
storage API token for that article labelled with
"Token:", the arrival date for that article on the
server in RFC 5322 date format labelled with
"Arrived:", and the expiration date for that
article (from the Expires header field) in RFC 5322
date format if there is any, labelled with
"Expires:". 

If this option
is given, the -n option must also be given to specify
the newsgroup on which to act. By default, all of the
overview information for that newsgroup is dumped, but the
-a option may be given to restrict the dump to the
information for a single article or a range of article
numbers.

-O

Dump the overview information
for a newsgroup in the format used by overchan as
input. Each line will start with the storage API token, the
arrival timestamp in seconds since epoch, the expires
timestamp in the same format (or 0 if there is no Expires
header field), and then the overview data.

If this option
is given, the -n option must also be given to specify
the newsgroup on which to act. By default, all of the
overview information for that newsgroup is dumped, but the
-a option may be given to restrict the dump to the
information for a single article or a range of article
numbers.

-p path

Act on the overview database
rooted in path, overriding the overview path
specified in the pathoverview parameter in
inn.conf.

EXAMPLES

Dump
newsgroup-related overview information for the overview
database in /news/overview, regardless of the
overview path specified in inn.conf:

ovsqlite-util
-i -p /news/overview

Dump overall
overview information for example.test:

ovsqlite-util
-g -n example.test

Dump the
complete overview information for example.test:

ovsqlite-util
-o -n example.test

Dump the
overview information for articles 45 and higher in
example.test:

ovsqlite-util
-o -n example.test -a 45-

Audit the
entire overview database for any problems:

ovsqlite-util
-A

HISTORY

Written by
Julien ÉLIE for InterNetNews.

SEE ALSO

expireover(8),
inndf(8), makehistory(8), nnrpd(8), ovsqlite(5).