Pamcut User Manual(1)       General Commands Manual      Pamcut User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamcut - cut a rectangle out of a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       pamcut

       [-left colnum]

       [-right colnum]

       [-top rownum]

       [-bottom rownum]

       [-width cols]

       [-height rows]

       [-pad]

       [-cropleft numcols]

       [-cropright numcols]

       [-croptop numrows]

       [-cropbottom numrows]

       [-verbose]

       [left top width height]

       [pnmfile]

       Minimum  unique  abbreviations  of  option are acceptable.  You may use
       double hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamcut reads a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input  and  extracts  the
       specified rectangle, and produces the same kind of image as output.

       You can specify either the rectangle to cut out and keep or specify the
       edges to crop off and discard, or a combination.

       To request edges be cropped off,  use  options  -cropleft,  -cropright,
       -croptop,  and -cropbottom to indicate how many rows or columns to dis‐
       card.

       For example, -cropleft=50 -cropright=200 means to discard the  leftmost
       50 and rightmost 200 columns.

       To  specify  the  rectangle  to keep, use -left, -right, -top, -bottom,
       -width, -height, and -pad options.

       For example, -left=50 -right=200 means to keep the 150 columns  between
       Columns 50 and 200 inclusive.

       You  can  code  any mixture of the options.  What you don't specify de‐
       faults.  Those defaults are in favor of minimal cutting and in favor of
       cutting the right and bottom edges off.  It is an error to overspecify,
       i.e. to specify all three of -left, -right, and -width or  -top,  -bot‐
       tom, and -height or right as well as -cropright.

       There  is an older way to specify the rectangle to keep: positional ar‐
       guments.  Arguments were the only way available before July  2000,  but
       you should not use them in new applications.  Options are easier to re‐
       member and read, more expressive, and allow you to use defaults.

       If you use both options and arguments, the two specifications get mixed
       in an unspecified way.

       To  use arguments, specify all four of the left, top, width, and height
       arguments.  left and top have the same effect as specifying them as the
       argument  of  a  -left  or -top option, respectively.  width and height
       have the same effect as specifying them as the argument of a -width  or
       -height  option, respectively, where they are positive.  Where they are
       not positive, they have the same effect as specifying one less than the
       value  as  the  argument  to  a -right or -bottom option, respectively.
       (E.g. width = 0 makes the cut go all the way to the right  edge).   Be‐
       fore July 2000, negative numbers were not allowed for width and height.

       Input  is  from Standard Input if you don't specify the input file pnm‐
       file.

       Output is to Standard Output.

       pamcut works on a multi-image stream.  It cuts each image in the stream
       independently  and produces a multi-image stream output.  Before Netpbm
       10.32 (March 2006), it ignored all but the first image in the stream.

       If you are splitting a single image  into  multiple  same-size  images,
       pamdice is faster and easier than running pamcut multiple times.

       pamcomp  is  also  useful for cutting and padding an image to a certain
       size.  You create a background image of the  desired  frame  dimensions
       and overlay the subject image on it.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ),  pamcut  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -left=colnum
              The  column  number  of the leftmost column to be in the output.
              Columns left of this get cut out.  If a nonnegative  number,  it
              refers to columns numbered from 0 at the left, increasing to the
              right.  If negative, it refers to columns  numbered  -1  at  the
              right, decreasing to the left.

       -right=colnum
              The  column  number of the rightmost column to be in the output,
              numbered the same as for -left.  Columns to the  right  of  this
              get cut out.

       -top=rownum
              The  row  number  of  the topmost row to be in the output.  Rows
              above this get cut out.  If a nonnegative number  it  refers  to
              rows  numbered from 0 at the top, increasing downward.  If nega‐
              tive, it refers to columns numbered -1 at the bottom, decreasing
              upward.

       -bottom=rownum
              The  row number of the bottom-most row to be in the output, num‐
              bered the same as for -top.  Rows below this get cut out.

       -width=cols
              The number of columns to be in the output.  Must be positive.

       -height=rows
              The number of rows to be in the output.  Must be positive.

       -cropleft

       -cropright

       -croptop

       -cropbottom
              These options tell how many rows or columns  to  crop  from  the
              left, right, top, or bottom edges, respectively.

              The value must not be negative.

              These  option  were new in Netpbm 10.85 (December 2018).  Before
              that, you can achieve the same thing with -left, top, and  nega‐
              tive values for -right and -bottom.  Remember to subtract one in
              the  latter  case;  e.g.  the  equivalent  of  -cropright=1   is
              -right=-2.

       -pad   If  the  rectangle  you specify is not entirely within the input
              image, pamcut fails unless you also specify -pad.  In that case,
              it  pads the output with black up to the edges you specify.  You
              can use this option if you need to have an image of certain  di‐
              mensions and have an image of arbitrary dimensions.

              pnmpad  also  adds  borders  to  an image, but you specify their
              width directly.

              pamcomp does a more general form  of  this  padding.   Create  a
              background image of the frame dimensions and overlay the subject
              image on it.  You can use options to have the subject  image  in
              the center of the frame or against any edge and make the padding
              any color (the padding color is the color of the background  im‐
              age).

       -verbose
              Print information about the processing to Standard Error.

SEE ALSO
       pnmcrop(1),  pamdice(1), pamcomp(1), pnmpad(1), pnmcat(1), pgmslice(1),
       pnm(1)

HISTORY
       pamcut was derived from pnmcut in Netpbm 9.20 (May 2001).  It  was  the
       first  Netpbm program adapted to the new PAM format and programming li‐
       brary.

       The predecessor pnmcut was one of the oldest tools in the Netpbm  pack‐
       age.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamcut.html

netpbm documentation            04 October 2019          Pamcut User Manual(1)