Pamdepth User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pamdepth User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamdepth - change the depth (color resolution) in a Netpbm image

SYNOPSIS
       pamdepth newmaxval [netpbmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamdepth  reads a Netpbm image as input, changes its depth (color reso-
       lution), and writes out the resulting Netpbm image.   I.e.  the  output
       has  a  different maxval from the input, but all the same colors (apart
       from rounding error).

       Reducing the depth results in some loss of information.

       Here is an example of the effect at the image format level: Assume  you
       start  with  an  image with maxval 100 and sample values of 50 and 100.
       You tell pamdepth to change it to depth 150.  The output has maxval 200
       and sample values 75 and 150.

       This program works on multi-image streams.

       Be  careful of off-by-one errors when choosing the new maxval.  For in-
       stance, if you want the color values to be five bits wide, use a maxval
       of 31, not 32.

       One  important  use  of pamdepth is to convert a new format 2-byte-per-
       sample PNM file to the older 1-byte-per-sample  format.   Before  April
       2000,  essentially  all raw (binary) format PNM files had a maxval less
       than 256 and one byte per sample, and many programs may rely  on  that.
       If  you specify a newmaxval less than 256, the resulting file should be
       readable by any program that worked with PNM files before April 2000.

   Output Format
       The output format (PBM, etc.) and, in the case of PAM, tuple  type,  of
       the output is usually the same as the input.

       However,  changing  the  depth of a black and white image does not make
       sense, except to turn it into a grayscale image, so if the input  is  a
       black and white image, pamdepth makes the output grayscale.  To be more
       precise, if the input is a PBM image, the output is PGM, and if the in-
       put  is a PAM with tuple type BLACK_AND_WHITE or BLACK_AND_WHITE_ALPHA,
       the output is a PAM with tuple type GRAYSCALE or  GRAYSCALE_ALPHA,  re-
       spectively.

       This conversion happens even if the new maxval is 1.

       Before  Netpbm 10.92 (September 2020), pamdepth failed if the input was
       PAM with a black and white tuple type and the new maxval  was  anything
       but 1.  But it always promoted PBM to PGM.

OPTIONS
       There  are  no  command line options defined specifically for pamdepth,
       but it recognizes the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (See
        Common Options <index.html#commonoptions> .)

SEE ALSO
       pnm(1), pam(1), pnmquant(1), ppmdither(1) pambrighten(1) pamfunc(1)

HISTORY
       pamdepth  was  new  in  Netpbm  10.32 (February 2006).  It replaced pn-
       mdepth, by Jef Poskanzer.  pamdepth is  backward  compatible  with  pn-
       mdepth  and  adds  the  ability to process arbitrary PAM images and the
       ability to process multi-image input streams.   pnmdepth  handled  only
       PNM images and ignored all but the first in any stream.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamdepth.html

netpbm documentation            26 August 2020         Pamdepth User Manual(1)
