Pamdeinterlace User Manual(1General Commands ManuPamdeinterlace User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamdeinterlace - remove every other row from a PAM/PNM image

SYNOPSIS
       pamdeinterlace

       [-takeodd]

       [-takeeven]

       [infile]

       You  can  use  the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can
       use two hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option  name  from
       its value with white space instead of an equals sign.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamdeinterlace  removes all the even-numbered or odd-numbered rows from
       the input PNM or PAM image.   Specify  which  with  the  -takeeven  and
       -takeodd options.

       This  can  be useful if the image is a video capture from an interlaced
       video source.  In that case, each row shows the subject 1/60 second be‐
       fore or after the two rows that surround it.  If the subject is moving,
       this can detract from the quality of the image.

       Because the resulting image is half the height of the input image,  you
       will  then want to use pamstretch or pamscale to restore it to its nor‐
       mal height:

       pamdeinterlace myimage.ppm | pamstretch -yscale=2 >newimage.ppm

       Another, usually better, way to deinterlace an image is with  pammixin‐
       terlace.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamdeinterlace recognizes
       the following command line options:

       -takeodd
              Take  the  odd-numbered  rows from the input and put them in the
              output.  The rows are numbered starting at zero,  so  the  first
              row  in the output is the second row from the input.  You cannot
              specify both -takeeven and -takeodd.

       -takeeven
              Take the even-numbered rows from the input and put them  in  the
              output.   The  rows  are numbered starting at zero, so the first
              row in the output is the first row from the input.  This is  the
              default.  You cannot specify both -takeeven and -takeodd.

SEE ALSO
       pammixinterlace(1), pam(1) pnm(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamdeinterlace.html

netpbm documentation           11 November 2001  Pamdeinterlace User Manual(1)
