Pamfile User Manual(1)      General Commands Manual     Pamfile User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamfile - describe a Netpbm (PAM or PNM) file

SYNOPSIS
       pamfile

       [-allimages] [-comments] [-count] [-machine] [-size]

       [file ...]

       Minimum  unique  abbreviations  of options are acceptable.  You may use
       double hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamfile reads one or more Netpbm files as input and  writes  out  short
       descriptions  of  the image type, size, etc.  This is partly for use in
       shell scripts, so the format is not particularly pretty.

       By default, pamfile reads only the header of the input file.   If  that
       file is a pipe, that might cause problems for the process that is feed‐
       ing the pipe.  In that case, see the -allimages option.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ), pamfile recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -allimages
              This option causes pamfile to describe every image in each input
              file.  Without this option, pamfile describes only the first im‐
              age in each input file.

              This option also causes pamfile to read all the images from  the
              input  stream, whereas without it, pamfile reads only the header
              of the first one.  If the input  stream  is  from  a  pipe,  the
              process that is feeding the pipe might require the entire stream
              to be consumed.  In that case,  use  this  option  even  if  the
              stream contains only one image.

              This option has no effect if you also specify -count.

              Note  that  before July 2000, a file could not contain more than
              one image and many programs ignore all but the first.

              This option was new in Netpbm 9.5 (July 2000).

       -comments
              This option causes pamfile to include for each PAM image  a  re‐
              port of the comments from the header of the image.

              For  a PBM, PGM, or PPM image, pamfile reports there are no com‐
              ments, even if there are.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.35 (August 2006).

       -count This option causes pamfile to display only a count of  how  many
              images are in each input file.

              As with -allimages, this causes pamfile to read all the images.

              You may specify at most one of -count, -machine, and -size.

              This option was new with Netpbm 10.31 (December 2005).

       -machine
              This  makes  the  output  more  convenient for a machine to use,
              while
                less convenient for a human.  pamfile reports the same  infor‐
              mation
                as with no options.

              The  output is one line of ASCII text per image.  Each line con‐
              sists of
                   the file name, followed by a colon, followed  by  a  space,
              then the
                   following tokens with a space in between:

       •      Format: 'PAM', 'PBM', 'PGM', or
                      'PPM',

       •      Subformat: 'PLAIN' or 'RAW'

       •      Width: in pixels, in decimal

       •      Height: in pixels, in decimal

       •      Depth: in decimal

       •      Maxval: in decimal (1 if image is PBM)

       •      Tuple type (emulated if the image is not PAM)

              You may specify at most one of -count, -machine, and -size.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -size  This  makes  the output contain only the height and width of the
              image, in a form convenient for machine processing.

              There is one line of output per image, consising of  two  blank-
              delimited tokens:

       •      Width: in pixels, in decimal

       •      Height: in pixels, in decimal

              Note  that there is no way to tell which image is in which file,
              if you have multiple input files with multiple images.  If  that
              is your case, use -machine instead.

              You may specify at most one of -count, -machine, and -size.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

SEE ALSO
       pam(1), ppmhist(1), file

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamfile.html

netpbm documentation             04 July 2020           Pamfile User Manual(1)
