Pammosaicknit User Manual(1)General Commands ManuaPammosaicknit User Manual(1)

NAME
       pammosaicknit - validate a mosaic knitting pattern

SYNOPSIS
       pammosaicknit [in_netpbmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pammosaicknit   helps   the   user   create  mosaic  knitting  patterns
       ⟨http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slip-stitch_knitting#Mosaic_knitting⟩   .
       The  program inputs a black-and-white Netpbm image that describes a mo‐
       saic knitting pattern and outputs a color Netpbm image of the same pat‐
       tern but with invalid runs shown in red.

       A  valid  knitting  pattern starts with a "black" row on the bottom and
       alternates "white" and "black" rows. A "black" row can contain any  ar‐
       rangement of black pixels but no more than three consecutive white pix‐
       els. A "white" row can contain any arrangement of white pixels  but  no
       more than three consecutive black pixels. Columns wrap horizontally, so
       a "white" row that both begins and ends with two black pixels is deemed
       to  contain  four  consecutive black pixels. Because this is an invalid
       number for a "white" row, those four pixels will be  recolored  red  in
       the output image.

       For clarity, there are two shades of red in the output image.  Dark red
       pixels indicate pixels that were black in the  input  image  but  which
       must contain one or more white pixels. Light red pixels indicate pixels
       that were white in the input image but which must contain one  or  more
       black pixels.

       If the output image contains no red pixels, then the input image repre‐
       sents a valid mosaic knitting pattern.

OPTIONS
       There are no command line options defined specifically for  pammosaick‐
       nit, but it recognizes the options common to all programs based on lib‐
       netpbm (See
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ .)

ARGUMENTS
       pammosaicknit's only argument, in_netpbmfile, is the name of  an  image
       file  that  represents  a mosaic knitting pattern. If you don't specify
       in_netpbmfile, the program reads the image from Standard Input.

NOTES
       If the input image is not a black-and-white image,  pammosaicknit  con‐
       verts it internally to black and white by thresholding each pixel's lu‐
       minosity. The output image is always a color image containing  at  most
       four colors (black, white, dark red, light red).

SEE ALSO
       •

              pam(1)

HISTORY
       pammosaicknit was new in Netpbm 10.53 (December 2010).

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2010 Scott Pakin, scott+pbm@pakin.org

Table Of Contents
       •

              SYNOPSIS ⟨#synopsis⟩

       •

              DESCRIPTION ⟨#description⟩

       •

              OPTIONS ⟨#options⟩

       •

              ARGUMENTS ⟨#arguments⟩

       •

              NOTES ⟨#notes⟩

       •

              SEE ALSO ⟨#seealso⟩

       •

              HISTORY ⟨#history⟩

       •

              AUTHOR ⟨#author⟩

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pammosaicknit.html

netpbm documentation           12 December 2010   Pammosaicknit User Manual(1)
