Pamstretch User Manual(1)   General Commands Manual  Pamstretch User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamstretch  - scale up a PNM or PAM image by interpolating between pix‐
       els.

SYNOPSIS
       pamstretch

       [-xscale=X]

       [-yscale=Y] [-blackedge]

       [-dropedge]

       N

       [infile]

       You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the  options.   You  can
       use  two  hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option name from
       its value with white space instead of an equals sign.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamstretch  scales up pictures by integer  values,  either  vertically,
       horizontally,  or  both.   pamstretch  differs from pamscale and pamen‐
       large in that when it inserts the additional rows and columns,  instead
       of  making  the  new  row  or column a copy of its neighbor, pamstretch
       makes the new row or column an interpolation between its neighbors.  In
       some images, this produces better looking output.

       To scale up to non-integer pixel sizes, e.g. 2.5, try pamstretch-gen(1)
       instead.

       Options  let  you  select  alternative  methods  of  dealing  with  the
       right/bottom edges of the picture.  Since the interpolation is done be‐
       tween the top-left corners of the scaled-up pixels,  it's  not  obvious
       what  to  do  with the right/bottom edges.  The default behaviour is to
       scale those up without interpolation (more precisely, the right edge is
       only  interpolated vertically, and the bottom edge is only interpolated
       horizontally), but there are two other possibilities, selected  by  the
       -blackedge and -dropedge options.

       In  the  special  case  that the stretch factor is 1, there is no issue
       with the right and bottom edges, the edges of the output are  identical
       to the edges of the input regardless of -blackedge and -dropedge.  How‐
       ever, before Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019), -dropedge would cause the  edge
       to be dropped even where the stretch factor was 1.

PARAMETERS
       The  N  parameter  is  the scale factor.  It is valid only if you don't
       specify -xscale or -yscale.  In that case, pamstretch  scales  in  both
       dimensions and by the scale factor N.

       Before Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019), 1 was not a valid value.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamstretch recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -xscale=X
              This is the horizontal scale factor.  If you don't specify this,
              but do specify a vertical scale  factor,  the  horizontal  scale
              factor is 1.

              This option was new in Netpbm 9.21 (December 2001).

       -yscale=Y
              This  is  the vertical scale factor.  If you don't specify this,
              but do specify a horizontal scale  factor,  the  vertical  scale
              factor is 1.

              This option was new in Netpbm 9.21 (December 2001).

       -blackedge
              interpolate to black at right/bottom edges.

       -dropedge
              drop  one (source) pixel at right/bottom edges. This is arguably
              more logical than the default behaviour, but it means  producing
              output which is a slightly odd size.

LIMITATIONS
       Usually produces fairly ugly output for PBMs. For most PBM input you'll
       probably want to reduce the `noise' first using something  like  pnmnl‐
       filt(1).

SEE ALSO
       pamstretch-gen(1), pamenlarge(1), pamscale(1), pnmnlfilt(1)

AUTHOR
       Russell Marks (russell.marks@ntlworld.com).

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamstretch.html

netpbm documentation           02 February 2019      Pamstretch User Manual(1)