Pamtohdiff User Manual(1)   General Commands Manual  Pamtohdiff User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamtohdiff - convert PAM image to horizontal difference image

SYNOPSIS
       pamtohdiff [pamfile] [-verbose]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamtohdiff  takes a PAM (or PNM) image as input and produces a horizon‐
       tal difference image version of it as output.  A horizontal  difference
       image  is one where the samples in each row indicate the difference be‐
       tween the sample value in the corresponding sample of the  input  image
       and the sample directly above it (in the previous row) in the input im‐
       age.  The horizontal difference image has the property that if a row of
       the original image is identical to the row above it over a long extent,
       the corresponding row in the horizontal difference image  will  contain
       all zeroes.  That makes it compress better than the original image.

       Because  the horizontal difference samples can be positive or negative,
       but PAM samples are unsigned integers, the samples  in  the  horizontal
       difference image PAM are defined to be the difference modulus the range
       of the input (maxval + 1).  This doesn't lose any  information,  as  it
       might  seem,  because:  of the two differences that could result in the
       same pamtohdiff output value (e.g. if maxval is 99, +20 and  -80  would
       both result in "20" in the output), only one is possible in context and
       the other would result, when reconstructing the original  image,  in  a
       value less than 0 or greater than maxval.

       Before  the  modulus operation, the values pamtohdiff computes are also
       biased by half the maxval.  This is to make the results easier  to  in‐
       spect  visually.   Because  of the bias, you can display the pamtohdiff
       output as if it were a PNM image.  As long as none of your  differences
       are  more  than  half the maxval, large negative differences show up as
       dark spots, smaller negative differences are lighter, zero  differences
       are  medium intensity, and positive differences are light.  If you want
       this to work even for images that have differences that exceed half the
       maxval,  just use ppmdim 50 on the original image.  To avoid losing in‐
       formation, though, do a pamdepth to double the maxval first.

       Note that because of the transfer function just described, a difference
       of  zero, which is most common, is represented by a PAM sample value in
       the output of one half the maxval.

       The output PAM has a tuple type of "hdiff".

       You can use hdifftopam to recover the original image from a  horizontal
       difference image PAM.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamtohdiff recognizes the
       following command line option:

       -verbose
              Currently no effect.  This may change in future versions.

SEE ALSO
       hdifftopam(1), pamdepth(1)

AUTHOR
       Bryan Henderson

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtohdiff.html

netpbm documentation             15 April 2002       Pamtohdiff User Manual(1)
