Pamtouil User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pamtouil User Manual(1)

NAME
       pamtouil  -  convert  a  PNM or PNM/transparency image into a Motif UIL
       icon file

SYNOPSIS
       pamtouil [-name=uilname] [pamfile]

       You may abbreviate any option to its shortest unique prefix.   You  may
       use  two hyphens instead of one to delimit an option.  You may separate
       an option from its value with whitespace instead of =.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pamtouil reads a PNM or PAM image as input and  produces  a  Motif  UIL
       icon  file  as output.  If the input is PAM, it may be either a regular
       grayscale or color image or grayscale+transparency  or  color+transpar‐
       ency.  Where the transparency channel is present, pamtouil renders pix‐
       els that are more than half transparent as transparent in the output.

       In the UIL's colormap, pamtouil uses the color names from the RGB data‐
       base  -- the same one ppmmake(1) uses.  Where a color in the input does
       not exactly match one of the colors named in the RGB database, pamtouil
       uses the closest color named in the RGB database.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pamtouil  recognizes  the
       following command line option:

       -name
                   Allows you to specify the prefix string which is printed in
              the
                   resulting UIL output.  If not specified,  will  default  to
              the filename
                   (without  extension)  of the ppmfile argument.  If -name is
              not
                   specified and no ppmfile is specified (i.e.  piped  input),
              the
                   prefix string will default to the string "noname".

SEE ALSO
       pamstack(1) pam(1) ppm(1)

HISTORY
       Before May 2002, pamtouil was called ppmtouil and had no way to specify
       transparency.

AUTHOR
       Converted by Bryan Henderson from ppmtouil.c, which  was  converted  by
       Jef  Poskanzer  from ppmtoxpm.c, which is Copyright (C) 1990 by Mark W.
       Snitily

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtouil.html

netpbm documentation              05 May 2002          Pamtouil User Manual(1)
