Pbmclean User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pbmclean User Manual(1)

NAME
       pbmclean - despeckle a PBM image

SYNOPSIS
       pbmclean [-minneighbors=N] [-black|-white] [-extended] [pbmfile]

OPTION USAGE
       You  can  use  the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can
       use two hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option  name  from
       its value with white space instead of an equals sign.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pbmclean  cleans up a PBM image of random specks.  It reads a PBM image
       as input and outputs a PBM that is the same as the  input  except  with
       isolated pixels inverted.

       You can use pbmclean  to clean up "snow" on bitmap images.

       There  are  two  ways pbmclean can define "isolated" pixels: simple and
       extended.  When you specify -extended, pbmclean uses  extended;  other‐
       wise it uses basic.

   Basic Mode
       In basic mode, pbmclean looks at each pixel individually, and any pixel
       that doesn't have at least a minimum number of pixels of the same color
       touching it is considered isolated and pbmclean erases it.

       The  -minneighbors  option  specifies the minimum number of neighboring
       pixels of the same color for a pixel not to be considered isolated.

       For example, if -minneighbors is two and there are two contiguous black
       pixels  in  an otherwise white field, each of those pixels is isolated,
       so pbmclean erases them - turns both white.

       The default minimum 1 pixel - pbmclean flips only  completely  isolated
       pixels.

       (A  -minneighbors  value greater than 8 generates a completely inverted
       image (but use pnminvert to do that) -- or a completely white  or  com‐
       pletely black image with the -black or -white option).

       pbmclean  considers the area beyond the edges of the image to be white.
       (This matters when you consider pixels right on the edge of the image).

       pbmclean does not distinguish between foreground and background; by de‐
       fault,  it  flips isolated pixels of either color.  But you can specify
       -black or -white to have it flip only pixels of one color.

   Extended Mode
       In extended mode, pbmclean erases all blobs which don't have the speci‐
       fied minimum number of pixels.  A blob is a set of contiguous pixels of
       the foreground color.  The minimum number of pixels  is  one  plus  the
       -minneighbors  value.  You specify the foreground color with -black and
       -white (default is black).

       For example, if -minneighbors is 2 and the foreground color  is  black,
       and  the  image contains a straight line 4 pixels long, pbmclean erases
       that -- turns all four pixels white.  pbmclean also erases 4 pixels  in
       a square or L-shape.

       The  default  -minneighbors is 4, so a blob must have at least 5 pixels
       to escape pbmclean's purge.

       Extended mode was new in Netpbm 10.56 (September 2011).

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pbmclean recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -black

       -white Flip pixels of the specified color.  By default, if you  specify
              neither  -black  nor -white, pbmclean flips both black and white
              pixels which do not have sufficient identical neighbors.  If you
              specify  -black, pbmclean leaves the white pixels alone and just
              erases isolated black pixels.  Vice versa for -white.   You  may
              specify  both  -black  and -white to get the same as the default
              behavior.

       -minneighbors=N
              This determines how many pixels must be in a  cluster  in  order
              for  pbmclean to consider them legitimate and not clean them out
              of the image.  See Description ⟨#description⟩ .

              Before December 2001, pbmclean accepted -N instead of -minneigh‐
              bors.  Before Netpbm 10.27 (March 2005), -minneighbors was -min‐
              neighbor.

       -extended
              pbmclean uses extended, as opposed to basic, isolated pixel  de‐
              tection.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.56 (September 2011).

SEE ALSO
       pbm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1990 by Angus Duggan Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
       Copyright (C) 2001 by Michael Sternberg.

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software  and  its
       documentation  for  any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, pro‐
       vided that the above copyright notice appear in  all  copies  and  that
       both  that  copyright  notice and this permission notice appear in sup‐
       porting documentation.  This software is provided "as is"  without  ex‐
       press or implied warranty.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pbmclean.html

netpbm documentation           19 November 2011        Pbmclean User Manual(1)