Pbmtolj User Manual(1)      General Commands Manual     Pbmtolj User Manual(1)

NAME
       pbmtolj - convert a PBM image to HP LaserJet format

SYNOPSIS
       pbmtolj [-resolution N] [-float] [-noreset] [-packbits] [-delta] [-com‐
       press] [pbmfile] [-copies N]

       You can abbreviate any option to its shortest unique prefix.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pbmtolj reads a PBM image as input and produces  HP  LaserJet  data  as
       output.   You  can  send this data to a LaserJet or DeskJet printer (at
       least some of them).

       Each pixel in the input PBM image becomes one dot in the  printed  out‐
       put.   Therefore,  you must make sure the width and height of the input
       are appropriate for the print resolution you choose and the print  area
       you  want.  E.g. if you print at 300 dpi and want the image to print as
       8 inches by 10, you must supply a PBM that is 2400 pixels wide by  3000
       pixels  high.  You can adjust the size of the input with pamscale, pam‐
       stretch, pbmreduce, or pamenlarge.

       The input may be a multi-image PBM stream.  Each input image becomes  a
       page  of output.  But before Netpbm 10.28 (June 2005), images after the
       first one are ignored.

       Note that there is no ljtopbm tool.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ), pbmtolj recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -resolution
              Specifies the resolution of the output device, in dpi.   Another
              way to look at this is as a declaration of the resolution of the
              input image (PBM images don't have inherent resolution).   Typi‐
              cal values are 75, 100, 150, 300, and 600.  The default is 75.

       -float Suppresses positioning commands.  By default, pbmtolj places the
              sequence ESC & l 0 E in the output, which means to force the top
              margin to zero.  With -float, pbmtolj omits that command.

       -noreset
              Prevents  pbmtolj from writing the reset sequences to the begin‐
              ning and end of the output file.

       -packbits
              Enables use of TIFF packbits compression.

       -delta Enables use of delta-between-rows compression.

       -compress
              Enables use of both TIFF packbits, and  delta-between-rows  com‐
              pression.

       -copies
              Specifies  the  number of copies. The default is 1.  This option
              controls the "number of copies" printer control; pbmtolj  gener‐
              ates only one copy of the image.

SEE ALSO
       pnmtopclxl(1),   ppmtolj(1),   pjtoppm(1),   ppmtopj(1),  ppmtopjxl(1),
       thinkjettopbm(1), pbm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1988 by Jef Poskanzer and Michael Haberler.   -float  and
       -noreset  options added by Wim Lewis.  -delta, -packbits, and -compress
       options added by Dave Platt.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pbmtolj.html

netpbm documentation             23 April 2005          Pbmtolj User Manual(1)