Pbmtopgm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pbmtopgm User Manual(1)

NAME
       pbmtopgm - convert PBM image to PGM by averaging areas

SYNOPSIS
       pbmtopgm width height [pbmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pbmtopgm  reads  a PBM image as input.  It outputs a PGM image in which
       each pixel's gray level is the average of  the  surrounding  black  and
       white  input  pixels.   The surrounding area is a rectangle of width by
       height pixels.

       In other words, this is a convolution.  pbmtopgm is similar to  a  spe‐
       cial case of pnmconvol.

       You may need a pnmsmooth step after pbmtopgm.

       pbmtopgm has the effect of anti-aliasing bitmaps which contain distinct
       line features.

       pbmtopgm works best with odd sample width and heights.

       You don't need pbmtopgm just to use a PGM program on a PBM image.   Any
       PGM  program (assuming it uses the Netpbm libraries to read the PGM in‐
       put) takes PBM input as if it were PGM, with only the minimum and maxi‐
       mum  gray  levels.  So unless your convolution rectangle is bigger than
       one pixel, you're not gaining anything with a pbmtopgm step.

       The opposite transformation (which would turn a  PGM  into  a  PBM)  is
       dithering.  See pamditherbw.

OPTIONS
       There  are  no  command line options defined specifically for pbmtopgm,
       but it recognizes the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (See
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ .)

SEE ALSO
       pamditherbw(1), pnmconvol(1), pbm(1), pgm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1990 by Angus Duggan.

       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

       Permission  to  use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby  granted,  pro‐
       vided  that  the  above  copyright notice appear in all copies and that
       both that copyright notice and this permission notice  appear  in  sup‐
       porting  documentation.   This software is provided "as is" without ex‐
       press or implied warranty.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pbmtopgm.html

netpbm documentation              05 Feb 2003          Pbmtopgm User Manual(1)
