Pbmtolps User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pbmtolps User Manual(1)

NAME
       pbmtolps - convert PBM image to PostScript

SYNOPSIS
       pbmtolps [-dpi=n] [pbmfile]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou-
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pbmtolps reads a PBM image as input and outputs PostScript.  The output
       Postscript  uses lines instead of the image operator to generate a (de-
       vice dependent) picture which will be imaged much faster.

       pnmtops is a more general program for converting from the  Netpbm  for-
       mats to Postscript, though it cannot produce the particular arcane sub-
       format that pbmtolps does.

       One pixel of the input image corresponds to one printed pixel  ('dot').
       For  this to work, you must use a -dpi option to tell pmtolps the reso-
       lution of the target printer, in dots per inch.

       The Postscript program pbmtolps generates draws paths of less than 1000
       segments  so as not to overrun limits on the Apple Laserwriter and pos-
       sibly other printers.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  <index.html#commonoptions> ), pbmtolps recognizes the
       following command line option:

       -dpi=n The resolution of the target printer, in dots per inch.

SEE ALSO
       pnmtops(1), pstopnm(1), pbmtoepsi(1), psidtopgm(1), gs, pbm(1),

AUTHOR
       George Phillips <phillips@cs.ubc.ca>

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pbmtolps.html

netpbm documentation             06 July 2019          Pbmtolps User Manual(1)
