NAME

pcp-htop
- pcp-htop configuration file

DESCRIPTION

pcp-htop
is a customizable performance metrics reporting tool. It has
a dynamic architecture, where a set of configuration files
provide additional, optional meters and columns to extend
the fixed set of display options provided by regular
htop.

These
configuration files can be provided from both system-wide
locations (first /etc/pcp/htop then
/usr/share/pcp/htop) and below the user’s home
directory (usually ~/.config/htop). Within these
locations the meters and columns are scanned
for dynamic Meter and Column specifications.

Meters are
displayed in the top part of the pcp-htop window, and
columns are displayed in the lower part. Meters tend to
display system-wide metrics, and Columns display metrics
about individual processes.

The formats are
similar but have slightly different requirements. Both
formats follow the common ini-style. Blank lines are
ignored. Lines starting with the "#" character are
treated as comments.

METERS

The following
is an example configuration for a new Redis meter:

[redisclient]

caption = Redis clients 
type = bar 
blocked.metric = redis.blocked_clients 
blocked.color = blue 
blocked.label = blk 
clients.metric = redis.connected_clients 
clients.color = green 
clients.label = conn

A configuration
file can contain multiple meter definitions. Each definition
begins with a identifying name enclosed by square brackets -
redisclient in this example. The name is used
internally within pcp-htop and must be unique, must
begin with an alphabetic character, and may subsequently
only contain alphanumeric characters or the underscore
character. No whitespace or other characters are
allowed.

There are
several parameters that define the way the meter will be
displayed to the user. 
caption

This value is displayed on the
Setup screen once the meter has been selected. A truncated
version of the caption will also be displayed
(followed by a colon) on the primary display while the meter
is updating.

description

This can be used to provide
more detail during the meter selection process on the Setup
screen, and if present it is displayed in the
"Available Meters" column. If not present, the
caption will be used for this. If neither is present,
the internal (mandatory) name will be used.

type

This setting allows a preferred default meter type to be
specified. The associated value must be one of bar,
text, graph, or led. If no value is
provided for a dynamic meter, the default value of
text will be used.

maximum

A numeric value can also be set
to size the meter, such that values (e.g. for a bar
type meter display) will be scaled within range zero to
maximum.

The remaining
definition syntax describes the individual metric(s) which
will be used to animate the meter. One or more metrics must
be specified for each meter and there are several properties
associated with each. Once again, these metrics must be
named (the same rules described above for meters apply here)
and the following properties can be configured: 
name.metric

This is the only mandatory
field and associates a PCP metric with the meter. Values
sampled for each metric at runtime provide the animation
visible in the pcp-htop display. The metric
specification can be either a PCP metric name as listed by
pminfo(1) or a "derived" metric expression.
The format for derived metric expressions is described on
the pmRegisterDerived(3) manual page.

name.color

Setting color to be used when
rendering metric values. Possible values are red,
green, blue, cyan, magenta,
yellow, gray, darkgray or
white.

name.label

An optional, short label to
display before the metric value. The ":" character
will be appended to the label before the metric value
part of the display.

name.suffix

An optional, short suffix to
display after the metric value. Commonly used to indicate
values as a percentage using a "%" suffix
value and to provide the base unit of measurement. Note that
since PCP maintains units for metrics, for those metrics
that have dimension in "space" (bytes, kilobytes,
megabytes, etc), a suffix will be automatically
appended.

COLUMNS

The following
is an example configuration for a new column showing open
file descriptors for each process:

[openfds] 
heading = FDS 
caption = FDCOUNT 
description = Open file descriptors 
metric = proc.fd.count 
width = 3

A configuration
file can contain multiple column definitions. Each
definition begins with a identifying name enclosed by square
brackets - openfds in this example, and the same
rules apply as described above for meter names.

Each column
must specify a metric. Optional parameters can also be set.

metric

As with meters, the metric
value must be either a PCP metric name as listed by
pminfo(1) or a derived metric. The metric must have
an instance domain (set of values) and that instance domain
must map to the set of processes with the instance
identifier being PIDs (process identifiers). Typically this
will be metrics from the proc or hotproc
namespace (pmdaproc(1)), but metrics from other
domains (pmdabcc(1), pmdabpf(1), etc) that
have per-process values are equally applicable.

width

Column width to use when
displaying values for the metric. A negative value can be
used to specify left alignment. An upper column limit of 28
characters is enforced. The default column width is 5
characters.

heading

The short title that will be
displayed at the head of the column - usually a short,
cryptic, all uppercase string.

caption

A short identifying word
presented to users on the Setup screen under both the
Available and Active Columns lists.

description

Text that assists users to
understand the meaning of this column when it is being
presented via the Setup screen in the Available Columns
list.

SEE ALSO

pcp-htop(1),
pminfo(1), pmcd(1), pmdaproc(1),
pmdabcc(1), pmdabpf(1) and
pmRegisterDerived(3).

AUTHORS

htop was
originally developed by Hisham Muhammad. Nowadays it is
maintained by the community at htop [AT] groups.io>.

pcp-htop
is maintained as a collaboration between the
htop [AT] groups.io> and pcp [AT] groups.io>
communities, and forms part of the Performance Co-Pilot
suite of tools.