Pgmnoise User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pgmnoise User Manual(1)

NAME
       pgmnoise - create a PGM image made up of white noise

SYNOPSIS
       pgmnoise width height

       [-maxval=n] [-randomseed=integer]

       Minimum  unique  abbreviations  of  option are acceptable.  You may use
       double hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pgmnoise creates a PGM image that  is  made  up  of  pixels  of  random
       brightness.

       You specify the dimensions of the image with the width and height argu‐
       ments.

       The randomness in the image is limited before  Netpbm  10.37  (December
       2006)  --  if you run the program twice in the same second, you may get
       identical output.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pgmnoise recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -maxval=n
              The maxval of the generated image.

              Default is 255.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.63 (June 2013).

       -randomseed=integer
              This is the seed for the random number generator that  generates
              the pixels.

              Use  this  to  ensure you get the same image on separate invoca‐
              tions.

              By default, pgmnoise uses a seed derived from the  time  of  day
              and  process  ID, which gives you fairly uncorrelated results in
              multiple invocations.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.45 (December 2008).

SEE ALSO
       •

              pbmnoise(1)

       •

              pgm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1993 by Frank Neumann

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pgmnoise.html

netpbm documentation             27 June 2013          Pgmnoise User Manual(1)
