Pgmtoppm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pgmtoppm User Manual(1)

NAME
       pgmtoppm - colorize a PGM (grayscale) image into a PPM (color) image

SYNOPSIS
       pgmtoppm [-black=colorspec1] [-white=colorspec2]
        [pgmfile]  pgmtoppm  -map=filename  [pgmfile] pgmtoppm colorspec [pgm‐
       file] pgmtoppm colorspec1-colorspec2 [pgmfile]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       If all you want to do is convert PGM to PPM, keeping the same gray pix‐
       els,
         you may not need to.  All Netpbm programs that expect PPM input also
         recognize PGM.  And if you must have a PPM file, use ppmtoppm
         instead.  It is more efficient and easier to use.

       pgmtoppm reads a PGM as input and produces a PPM file as output with  a
       specific color assigned to each gray value in the input.

       You  can  specify  the  color in the output to which black in the input
       maps,
         and the color to which white maps.  All the gray  values  in  between
       map
         linearly  (across  a  three  dimensional space) to colors between the
       black and
         white colors you specify.

       Use the -black and -white options for this.  For historical
         reasons, you can alternatively use a non-option argument  to  specify
       the
         colors.  If you do that, pgmtoppm interprets the color argument
         like this: if the argument takes the form black-white,
         it has the effect of -black=black -white=white
         If  instead  there is no hyphen in the color argument, it has the ef‐
       fect of
         -white=color_argument.

       Because of the historical syntax, it is not possible to let both
         -black and -white default (but you shouldn't want to --
         see below for advice on making such a null conversion).

       You can alternatively specify an entire colormap with the -map option.

       A more direct way to specify a particular color to replace each partic‐
       ular  gray  level is to use pamlookup.  You make an index file that ex‐
       plicitly associates a color with each possible gray level.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pgmtoppm recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -black=colorspec
              The program maps black pixels in the input to this color in  the
              output.  The default is black.

              Specify  the  color (color) as described for the argument of the
              pnm_parsecolor()                 library                 routine
              ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩ .

              You cannot specify this together with -map.

              This  option  was  new  in Netpbm 10.97 (December 2021).  Before
              that,
                use the color argument.

       -white=colorspec
              The program maps white pixels in the input to this color in  the
              output.  The default is white.

              Specify  the  color (color) as described for the argument of the
              pnm_parsecolor()                 library                 routine
              ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩ .

              You cannot specify this together with -map.

              This  option  was  new  in Netpbm 10.97 (December 2021).  Before
              that,
                use the color argument.

       -map=filename
              This option specifies a complete mapping of gray values  in  the
              input to
                  color  values  in the output.  The map file (named filename)
              is just
                  a ppm file; it can be any shape, all  that  matters  is  the
              colors in
                  it  and  their  order.  In this case, black gets mapped into
              the first color
                  in the map file, and white gets mapped to the last and  gray
              values in
                  between  are  mapped linearly onto the sequence of colors in
              between.  The
                  maxval of the output image is the maxval of the map image.

NOTE - MAXVAL
       When you don't use -map, the "maxval," or depth, of the output image is
       the same as that of the input image.  The maxval affects the color res‐
       olution, which may cause quantization errors you  don't  anticipate  in
       your output.  For example, you have a simple black and white image as a
       PGM with maxval 1.  Run this image through pgmtoppm 0f/00/00 to try  to
       make the image black and faint red.  Because the output image will also
       have maxval 1, there is no such thing as faint red.  It has to  be  ei‐
       ther  full-on red or black.  pgmtoppm rounds the color 0f/00/00 down to
       black, and you get an output image that is nothing but black.

       The fix is easy: Pass the input through pamdepth on the way  into  pgm‐
       toppm  to increase its depth to something that would give you the reso‐
       lution you need to get your desired color.  In this case,  pamdepth  16
       would  do  it.  Or spare yourself the unnecessary thinking and just say
       pamdepth 255.

       PBM input is a special case.  While  you  might  think  this  would  be
       equivalent to a PGM with maxval 1 since only two gray levels are neces‐
       sary to represent a PBM image, pgmtoppm, like all Netpbm  programs,  in
       fact treats it as a maxval of 255.

SEE ALSO
       ppmtoppm(1),   pamdepth(1),  rgb3toppm(1),  ppmtopgm(1),  ppmtorgb3(1),
       ppm(1), pgm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pgmtoppm.html

netpbm documentation            02 October 2021        Pgmtoppm User Manual(1)