Picttoppm User Manual(1)    General Commands Manual   Picttoppm User Manual(1)

NAME
       picttoppm - convert a Macintosh PICT file to a PPM

SYNOPSIS
       picttoppm

       [-verbose=n]

       [-fullres]

       [-noheader]

       [-quickdraw] [-fontdir file]

       [pictfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       picttoppm reads a PICT file (version 1 or 2) and outputs a PPM image.

       PICT is an image format that was developed by Apple Computer in 1984 as
       the native format for Macintosh graphics.  A PICT image is  encoded  in
       QuickDraw  commands.  The PICT format is a meta-format that can be used
       for both bitmap images and vector images.  PICT is also known as  "Mac-
       intosh Picture" format, or the QuickDraw Picture format.

       PICT files are primarily used to exchange graphics between various Mac-
       intosh applications.

       In MacOS X, PDF replaces PICT as the main graphics format.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options <index.html#commonoptions> ), picttoppm recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -fontdir file
              Make the list of BDF fonts in file available for  use  by  pict-
              toppm  when drawing text.  See below for the format of the font-
              dir file.  This is in addition to the built-in fonts  and  those
              in the file fontdir.

       -fullres
              Force  any  images  in  the PICT file to be output with at least
              their full resolution.  A PICT file may  indicate  that  a  con-
              tained  image  is  to be scaled down before output.  This option
              forces images to retain  their  sizes  and  prevent  information
              loss.  This option disables all PICT operations except images.

       -noheader
              Do not assume the first 512 bytes of the file are a header.  All
              PICT files have such a header, but this is useful when you  have
              PICT data that was not stored in the data fork of a PICT file.

       -quickdraw
              Execute only pure quickdraw operations.  In particular, turn off
              the interpretation of special PostScript printer operations.

       -verbose=n
              Print a whole bunch of information about the PICT file  and  the
              conversion  process  that  only  picttoppm  hackers  really care
              about.

              n is the verbosity level, 0-2.

              Before Netpbm 10.98 (March 2022), this option is a  flag  option
              that you specify multiple times to specify increasing verbosity.

LIMITATIONS
       The  PICT  file format is a general drawing format.  picttoppm does not
       recognize all the drawing commands, but it does fully implement all im-
       age  commands  and  mostly implements line, rectangle, polygon and text
       drawing.  It is useful for converting scanned images and  some  drawing
       conversion.

       With  -fullres,  picttoppm ignores text drawing commands.  Beginning in
       Netpbm 10.45 (December 2008), it issues a warning message when it omits
       text for this reason.

FONTS
       Some  of the information in a PICT file is text, with a number indicat-
       ing the font in which the text is supposed to rendered.  picttoppm  has
       one built-in font, but you can add others by directing picttoppm to BDF
       font files, which you do with font directory files.

       picttoppm automatically uses the file named fontdir in the current  di-
       rectory,  if  it  exists.  You may specify an additional font directory
       file with the -fontdir option.

       Obviously the font definitions are strongly related to  the  Macintosh.
       You can find more font numbers and information about fonts in Macintosh
       documentation.

   Font Directory File Format
       Each line in the file is either a comment or font information.  A  com-
       ment begins with #.  The font information consists of 4 whitespace sep-
       arated fields.  The first is the font number, the second  is  the  font
       size  in pixels, the third is the font style and the fourth is the name
       of a BDF file containing the font.  The BDF format is defined by the  X
       Window System and is beyond the scope of this document.

       The  font number indicates the type face.  Here is a list of known font
       numbers and their faces.

       0      Chicago

       1      application font

       2      New York

       3      Geneva

       4      Monaco

       5      Venice

       6      London

       7      Athens

       8      San Franciso

       9      Toronto

       11     Cairo

       12     Los Angeles

       20     Times Roman

       21     Helvetica

       22     Courier

       23     Symbol

       24     Taliesin

       The font style indicates a variation on the font.  Multiple  variations
       may apply to a font and the font style is the sum of the variation num-
       bers which are:

       1      Boldface

       2      Italic

       4      Underlined

       8      Outlined

       16     Shadow

       32     Condensed

       64     Extended

SEE ALSO
       Inside Macintosh volumes 1 and 5, ppmtopict(1), ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright 1993 George Phillips

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/picttoppm.html

netpbm documentation             17 June 2006         Picttoppm User Manual(1)
