Pnmcrop User Manual(1)      General Commands Manual     Pnmcrop User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmcrop - crop a Netpbm image

SYNOPSIS
       pnmcrop

       [-white      |-black     |-sides     |-bg-color=color     |-bg-corner={
       topleft|topright|bottomleft|bottomright} ]

       [-left]

       [-right]

       [-top]

       [-bottom]

       [-margin=pixels]

       [-closeness=closeness_percent]

       [-borderfile=filename]

       [-blank-image={abort|pass|minimize|maxcrop}]

       {[-reportfull]|[-reportsize]}

       [-verbose]

       [pnmfile]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou‐
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pnmcrop  reads  a PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input, removes borders that
       are the background color, and produces the same type of image  as  out‐
       put.

       If you don't specify otherwise, pnmcrop assumes the background color is
       whatever color the top left and right corners of the image are  and  if
       they  are  different  colors,  something  midway between them.  You can
       specify that the background is white  or  black  with  the  -white  and
       -black  options  or make pnmcrop base its guess on all four corners in‐
       stead of just two with -sides.

       By default, pnmcrop chops off any stripe of background color it  finds,
       on  all  four sides.  You can tell pnmcrop to remove only specific bor‐
       ders with the -left, -right,
         -top, and -bottom options.

       But note that pnmcrop's determination of the background color is  inde‐
       pendent of which edges you crop, which may not be intuitive.  For exam‐
       ple, imagine an image with a blue border at the top and a black  border
       at  the  bottom and you say to crop the bottom (-bottom).  You may have
       expected to crop the black border, but you  actually  won't  crop  any‐
       thing,  because  pnmcrop  considers the background color to be whatever
       color the top two corners are, which is blue, and there is no  blue  at
       the bottom of the image.  If you do want pnmcrop to take the background
       color from the edges being cropped, use -bg-corner.

       If you want to leave some border, use the -margin option.  It will  not
       only  spare  some  of  the border from cropping, but will fill in (with
       what pnmcrop considers the background color) if necessary to get up  to
       that size.

       If  the input is a multi-image stream, pnmcrop processes each one inde‐
       pendently and produces a multi-image  stream  as  output.   It  chooses
       where  to  crop  independently  for each image.  So if you start with a
       stream of images of the same dimensions, you may end up with images  of
       differing dimensions.  Before Netpbm 10.37 (December 2006), pnmcrop ig‐
       nored all input images but the first.

       If you want to chop a specific amount off the side  of  an  image,  use
       pamcut.

       If  you want to add different borders after removing the existing ones,
       use pnmcat or pamcomp.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ), pnmcrop recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -white Take white to be the background color.  pnmcrop removes  borders
              which are white.

              You  may  specify  at  most  one of -black, -white, -sides, -bg-
              color, and -bg-corner.

       -black Take black to be the background color.  pnmcrop  removes borders
              which are black.

              You  may  specify  at  most  one of -black, -white, -sides, -bg-
              color, and -bg-corner.

       -bg-color=color
              This tells pnmcrop what color is the background - it  will  crop
              areas of this color.  color is a value that would be used as the
              argument    of    the    pnm_parsecolor()    library     routine
              ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩ .

              You  may  specify  at  most  one of -black, -white, -sides, -bg-
              color, and -bg-corner.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -sides Determine the background color from the colors of the four  cor‐
              ners  of  the input image.  pnmcrop removes borders which are of
              the background color.

              If at least three of the four corners are the same  color,  pnm‐
              crop  takes that as the background color.  If not, pnmcrop looks
              for two corners of the same color in the following order, taking
              the  first found as the background color: top, left, right, bot‐
              tom.  If all four corners are different colors, pnmcrop  assumes
              an average of the four colors as the background color.

              The -sides option slows pnmcrop down, as it reads the entire im‐
              age to determine the background color in addition to the  up  to
              three times that it would read it without -sides.

              You  may  specify  at  most  one of -black, -white, -sides, -bg-
              color, and -bg-corner.

       -bg-corner={topleft|topright|bottomleft|bottomright
              This option indicates a corner  which  is  background.   pnmcrop
              will  use  the  color of this corner as the background color and
              crop edges of that color.

              You may specify at most one  of  -black,  -white,  -sides,  -bg-
              color, and -bg-corner.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -left  Remove any left border.

       -right Remove any right border.

       -top   Remove any top border.

       -bottom
              Remove any bottom border.

       -margin=pixels
              Leave  pixels  pixels of border.  Expand the border to this size
              if necessary.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.29 (August 2005).

       -closeness=closeness_percent
              Any color in the image that is at least this close to the opera‐
              tive background color is considered to be background.

              You  can use this if the image has borders that vary slightly in
              color, such as would be the case in a  photograph.   Consider  a
              photograph  against  a  white  screen.   The color of the screen
              varies slightly with shading and dirt and  such,  but  is  still
              quite distinct in color from the subject of the photograph.  pn‐
              mcrop will choose some particular shade as the background  color
              and if you specify an appropriate -closeness value, it will cor‐
              rectly identify all of the screen as background and crop it off.

              To implement more complex rules for identifying background,  use
              -borderfile.

              The  default  is  zero, which means a pixel's color must exactly
              match the background color for the pixel to be  considered  part
              of a background border.

              This  option  was  new in Netpbm 10.78 (March 2017).  With older
              Netpbm, colors must match exactly.

       -borderfile=filename
              Use the image in the file named filename instead  of  the  input
              image  to determine where the borders of the input image are and
              the background color.

              Without this option, pnmcrop examines the input image  and  fig‐
              ures out what part of the image is border and what part is fore‐
              ground (not border), as well as the background color.  With this
              option,  pnmcrop  finds  the borders in one image, then uses the
              those four border sizes (left, right, top, bottom) in cropping a
              different  image.   Furthermore,  if you use -margin to add bor‐
              ders, the color of those borders is the background color pnmcrop
              detects in the border file.

              The  point  of this is that you may want to help pnmcrop to come
              to a different conclusion as to where the borders are  and  what
              the  background  color is by preprocessing the input image.  For
              example, consider an image that has speckles  of  noise  in  its
              borders.   pnmcrop  isn't  smart  enough  to  recognize these as
              noise; it sees them as foreground image.  So  pnmcrop  considers
              most of your borders to be foreground and does not crop them off
              as you want.  To fix this, run the image  through  a  despeckler
              such  as pbmclean and tell pnmcrop to use the despeckled version
              of the image as the -borderfile image, but the original speckled
              version as the input image.  That way, you crop the borders, but
              retain the true foreground image, speckles and all.

              The border file must have the same number of images in it as the
              input  file;  the  background color determination for image N of
              the input is based on the image N of the border file.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.29 (August 2005).

              Before Netpbm 10.46 (March 2009), the original image and not the
              border  file  determines the background color.  pnmcrop fails if
              there is no apparent background  color  in  the  original  image
              (i.e. the corners of the image don't have a common color).

       -blank-image={abort|pass|minimize|maxcrop}
              This determines how pnmcrop handles an image which is entirely
                background  (blank),  a  case where cropping doesn't make much
              sense.

       abort

              program fails, with explanatory message (default)

       pass

              Output image is the same as the input image.
                    -margin has no effect.

       minimize

              output is a single row, column,  or  pixel  (of  the  background
              color).
                    If  you  crop  both  vertically  and horizontally (the de‐
              fault), it is a
                    single pixel.  If you crop only vertically, a single  row,
              of the
                    original  width.   If  you crop only horizontally, it is a
              single column,
                    of the original height.

              This is a somewhat incongruous result; the  mathematically  con‐
              sistent
                      result  of cropping the background from an image that is
              entirely
                      background would be an image with no pixels at all.  But
              such a thing
                      does  not  exist in the Netpbm formats (and you probably
              wouldn't want
                      it anyway, because whoever processes this output may not
              tolerate
                      that).

              The background can be more than one color when you specify
                    -closeness,  so it matters which row, column, or pixel re‐
              mains.
                    If you crop on the top and not bottom, it is the last  row
              that remains.
                    If  you  crop on both the top and bottom, it is the middle
              row that
                    remains.  The other cases follow similarly.

              If you specify a margin (-margin), the output image consists
                      entirely of the margins; there is no single row, column,
              or pixel
                      between the margins.  So with -margin, the incongruity
                      mentioned above does not exist.  But before Netpbm 10.92
              (September
                      2020), -margin was ignored with -blank-image=minimize.

       maxcrop

              This odd function selects a hypothetical cropping which  is  not
              even
                    possible, and therefore is valid only with -reportfull or
                    -reportsize.   The cropping that this selects is a crop of
              the
                    entire image on every side on which you request  cropping.
              So if you
                    request cropping only on the left, of a 600 pixel wide im‐
              age, this
                    selects a cropping of 600 pixels from the  left  and  none
              from the other
                    three  sides.   Note  that were this cropping actually ap‐
              plied, this would
                    produce an image with no pixels,  which  is  not  a  valid
              Netpbm image.  But
                    it gets stranger still if you request cropping on both the
              right and the
                    left.  In that case, the cropping selected is  a  cropping
              of 600 pixels
                    from  both  the  right and left sides, which would leave a
              negative-width
                    image.

                    This is actually useful if you are trying to find a single
              set of
                    cropping  parameters  to  crop  a stream of images.  To do
              this, you could
                    do a pass with -reportsize and -blank-image=maxcrop to
                    compute the maximum crop for each edge, and then use those
              numbers in
                    -cropxxx options on a pamcut pass to do the crop.
                    In  this scenario, any all-background (blank) images would
              have no effect
                    on the cropping parameters you compute.  If you  do  this,
              you must give
                    special  consideration  to a stream with nothing but blank
              images.

              -margin is always ignored when the image is all background.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -reportfull
              With this option, pnmcrop does not actually crop anything.   In‐
              stead, it just prints to Standard Output parameters of the crop‐
              ping it would have done.  The output is a single line per image,
              like in this example:

                   0 +7 -20 -10 200 300 rgb-255:10/0/255 0.0

              The line is composed of the following blank-delimited tokens:

       •      how many pixels would be cropped or padded on the left.  This is
                  a signed decimal number, where + means pad and - means crop.
              If there
                  would be no change, this is unsigned zero.

       •      same, but for the right side.

       •      same, but for the top.

       •      same, but for the bottom.

       •      the resulting image width in pixels, in decimal.

       •      the resulting image height in pixels, in decimal.

       •      The color pnmcrop took to be the background color, like
                 'rgb-255:10/0/255' (This is a format recognized by
                 the pnm_parsecolor() ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩
                 library routine).  The maxval in the color  specification  is
              the maxval of
                 the image.

       •      The closeness value (see -closeness option) pnmcrop
                 used, in floating point decimal.

              You cannot use -borderfile together with this option.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -reportsize
              This is like -reportfull, but reports only the left, right, top,
              bottom, width, and height.

              You cannot use -borderfile together with this option.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -verbose
              Print on Standard Error information about  the  processing,  in‐
              cluding exactly how much is being cropped off of which sides.

SEE ALSO
       pamcut(1), pamfile(1), pnm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmcrop.html

netpbm documentation            16 August 2020          Pnmcrop User Manual(1)