Pnmmargin User Manual(1)    General Commands Manual   Pnmmargin User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmmargin - add borders to a PNM image

SYNOPSIS
       pnmmargin [-white|-black|-color colorspec] size [pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pnmmargin adds a border around a PNM image.

ARGUMENTS
       pnmfile is the name of the input file.  If you don't specify this argu‐
       ment, pnmmargin reads the input image from its Standard Input.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -plain, see
        Common  Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pnmmargin recognizes the
       following command line options:

       You can specify the border color with the -white,  -black,  and  -color
       options.  If you don't specify a color, the program makes a guess.

       The  value  of  -color  is  like  the  argument of the pnm_parsecolor()
       library routine ⟨libnetpbm_image.html#colorname⟩ .

       The -plain common option was implemented beginning with Netpbm  version
       10.40 (September 2007).

       The -quiet common option is not implemented.

NOTES
       To remove a border of a specified size from an image, use pamcut.  pnm‐
       crop also removes borders, but determines by itself what is border  and
       what is subject.

       For  lower  level  control,  including to add different size borders to
       different sides of the image, look at pnmcat.

       If all you're trying to do is get the image up to  a  certain  required
       size, pamcut may be what you want.

       pnmpad does essentially the same thing, but gives you more control over
       the individual margins and does only black and white margins.

SEE ALSO
       •

              pamcut(1)

       •

              pnmcrop(1)

       •

              pnmcat(1)

       •

              pnmpad(1)

       •

              pnm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmmargin.html

netpbm documentation           12 November 2014       Pnmmargin User Manual(1)