Pnmtorle User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pnmtorle User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmtorle - convert a Netpbm image file into an RLE image file.

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtorle

       [-header] [-verbose] [-alpha] [-outfile=outfile] [pnmfile]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       This program converts Netpbm image files into  Utah  RLE  image  files.
       You  can include a transparency mask.  If the input is a multiple image
       file, the output consists of several concatenated RLE images.

       pnmfile is the name of the Netpbm image input file.  If you don't spec‐
       ify this argument, input is from Standard Input.

       The  RLE file will contain either a three channel color image (24 bits)
       or a single channel grayscale image (8 bits) depending upon the type of
       Netpbm  input.  If the Netpbm input is color, the RLE output is 3 chan‐
       nel 24 bit color.  If the Netpbm input is grayscale or black and white,
       the RLE output is single channel grayscale.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), pnmtorle  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -verbose
                This  option  will  cause pnmtorle to operate in verbose mode.
              The
                program writes header information to  Standard  Error.   Actu‐
              ally, there is not
                much  header  information stored in a Netpbm file, so this in‐
              formation is
                minimal.

              Before Netpbm 10.98 (March 2022), this option is just -v.

       -header
              This option causes the program to dump the header of the  Netpbm
              image  to  be Standard Error without converting the file.  It is
              equivalent to using the -verbose option except that no file con‐
              version takes place.

              Before Netpbm 10.98 (March 2022), this option is just -h.

       -alpha This option causes pnmtorle to include a transparency channel in
              the output image.  The transparency channel is based on the  im‐
              age:  Wherever  a  pixel is black, the corresponding trasparency
              value is transparent.  Everywhere else, the  transparency  value
              is fully opaque.

       -outfile outfile
              If  you  specify this option, pnmtorle writes the output to this
              file.  If outfile is - or you don't specify  -outfile,  pnmtorle
              writes the output to Standard Output.

              Before Netpbm 10.98 (March 2022), this option is just -o.and
                  must  be  separated  from its value by a space, not an equal
              sign.

EXAMPLES
          pnmtorle -verbose file.ppm -outfile=file.rle

       While running in verbose mode, convert file.ppm to RLE format and store
       resulting data in file.rle.

          pnmtorle -header file.pgm

       Dump the header information of the Netpbm file called file.pgm.

SEE ALSO
       rletopnm(1)

AUTHOR
       Wes Barris,
       Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
       Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmtorle.html

netpbm documentation             07 March 2022         Pnmtorle User Manual(1)
