Pnmtopnm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Pnmtopnm User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmtopnm - copy a PNM image

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtopnm

       [pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pnmtopnm  simply copies a PNM image to Standard Output.  The output has
       the same major PNM format (PBM, PGM, or PPM) and maxval as  the  input.
       This  may  seem an unnecessary duplication of cat, but it lets you con-
       vert between the plain (ASCII) and raw (binary) subformats of PNM.  Use
       the  -plain Netpbm common option to ensure the output is plain PNM, and
       don't use -plain to ensure the output is raw PNM.  See
        Common Options <index.html#commonoptions> .

       You don't normally need to convert between the PNM subformats,  because
       any  program that uses the Netpbm library to read a PNM image will read
       all of them directly.  But there are a lot of programs that  don't  use
       the Netpbm library and understand only the raw format.  Plain format is
       nice because it is human readable; people often use it  to  debug  pro-
       grams that process PNM images.

       pnmtopnm  is  really  just  another name for the program pamtopnm.  The
       latter does the job because like any Netpbm program that takes PAM  in-
       put  via  the  Netpbm programming library facilities, it also takes PNM
       input.

OPTIONS
       There are no command line options defined  specifically  for  pnmtopnm,
       but it recognizes the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (See
        Common Options <index.html#commonoptions> .)

HISTORY
       pnmtopnm was new in Netpbm 10.23  (July  2004).   It  obsoleted  pnmto-
       plainpnm,  which  specifically  did the conversion to plain PNM.  There
       was no program to explicitly convert to raw PNM, but many  Netpbm  pro-
       grams can be made, with the right options, to be idempotent (i.e. to do
       the same thing as pnmtopnm).

       Then David Jones realized that the existing pamtopnm already did every-
       thing that pnmtopnm did and more, so in Netpbm 10.27 (March 2005), pnm-
       topnm became simply an alternate name for pamtopnm.

SEE ALSO
       ppmtoppm(1) pgmtopgm(1) pamtopnm(1) pnm(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmtopnm.html

netpbm documentation             24 March 2005         Pnmtopnm User Manual(1)
