Pnmtopalm User Manual(1)    General Commands Manual   Pnmtopalm User Manual(1)

NAME
       pnmtopalm - convert a PNM image to a Palm Bitmap

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtopalm

       [-verbose]

       [-depth=N]

       [-maxdepth=N]

       [-colormap]

       [-transparent=colorspec]

       [-density=N]

       [-offset]

       [-withdummy] [-scanline_compression | -rle_compression | -packbits_com-
       pression]

       [pnmfile]

       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use  dou-
       ble  hyphens  instead  of single hyphen to denote options.  You may use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       pnmtopalm  reads  a  PNM image as input, from Standard Input or pnmfile
       and produces a Palm Bitmap as output.

       Palm Bitmap files are either grayscale files with 1, 2, or 4  bits  per
       pixel,  or  mapped  color files with 8 bit per pixel, or a direct color
       file with 16 bits per pixel, and pnmtopalm  chooses  this  color  depth
       based on the maxval and number of colors in the input, unless you spec-
       ify a depth (bits per pixel) with -depth.  You can also specify a maxi-
       mum  depth  with  -maxdepth  to partially constrain pnmtopalm's choice.
       Input files must have an appropriate number and set of colors  for  the
       selected output constraints.

       This  often means that you should run the PNM image through pnmquant or
       pnmremap before you pass it to pnmtopalm.  Netpbm  comes  with  several
       colormap  files  you  can use with pnmremap for this purpose.  They are
       palmgray2.map (4 shades of gray for a depth of  2),  palmgray4.map  (16
       shades of gray for a depth of 4), and palmcolor8.map (232 colors in de-
       fault Palm colormap).  In a standard Netpbm installation, these are  in
       the  Netpbm  data directory, and you can find the Netpbm data directory
       with a netpbm-config --datadir shell command.

       Example:

         pnmremap myimage.ppm \
                  -mapfile=$(netpbm-config --datadir)/palmgray2.map \
         | pnmtopalm -depth=2 >myimage.palm

       Compressed Palm Bitmap files, at least the ones pnmtopalm knows how  to
       create,  cannot have more than 8 bits per pixel.  pnmtopalm defaults to
       8 bits per pixel if you specify a compressed output.  You  can  specify
       the number of bits per pixel explicitly with -depth.  -maxdepth has the
       same effect as -depth.  If you specify more than 8 bits per pixel  with
       either of these, pnmtopalm fails.

   Palm Bitmap Version
       pnmtopalm  generates a Version 0, 1, 2, or 3 Palm Bitmap.  It generates
       the oldest (lowest) version it can for the given image and the  options
       you specify.

       o      If  you  specify  a density (-density option) higher than "low,"
              the version is at least 3.

       o      If you specify transparency (-transparent option)  or  any  com-
              pression, the version is at least 2.

       o      If you specify a custom colormap (-colormap option), the version
              is at least 1.

       o      If the image has more than one bit per pixel, the version is  at
              least 1.  The image has more than one bit per pixel if you spec-
              ify it with -depth or if you let it default and  the  image  has
              more than two colors (or shades of gray).

       All  releases  of Palm OS can read a Version 0 bitmap.  Palm OS 3.0 and
       later can read a Version 1 bitmap.  Palm OS 3.5 and later  can  read  a
       Version  2 bitmap.  To read a Version 3 bitmap, you need Palm OS Garnet
       or a handheld running the High Density Display Feature Set.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options <index.html#commonoptions> ), pnmtopalm recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -verbose
              Display the format of the output file.

       -depth=N
              Produce a file of depth N, where N must be either 1, 2, 4, 8, or
              16.   Because  the default Palm 8-bit colormap is not grayscale,
              if the input is a grayscale or monochrome image, the output will
              never  be  more  than  4  bits deep, regardless of the specified
              depth.  Note that 8-bit color works  only  in  PalmOS  3.5  (and
              higher),  and  16-bit direct color works only in PalmOS 4.0 (and
              higher).  However, the 16-bit direct color format is  also  com-
              patible  with  the various PalmOS 3.x versions used in the Hand-
              spring Visor, so these images may also work in that device.

       -maxdepth=N
              Produce a file of minimal depth, but in any  case  less  than  N
              bits  wide.   If  you  specify 16-bit, the output will always be
              16-bit direct color.

       -offset
              Set the nextDepthOffset field in the palm file header  to  indi-
              cate  the  end  of  the  file  (and pad the end of the file to 4
              bytes, since nextDepthOffset can point only  to  4  byte  bound-
              aries).

              A  palm  image  file can contain multiple renditions of the same
              image, with different color depths, so a viewer can  choose  one
              appropriate  for  the  display.  The nextDepthOffset field tells
              where in the stream the next rendition begins.

              pnmtopalm creates a file that contains only one image,  but  you
              can  separately concatenate multiple one-image files to create a
              multi-image file.  If you do that, you'll need to use -offset so
              that the resulting concatenation is a correct stream.

              By default (if you don't specify -offset), pnmtopalm generates a
              nextDepthOffset field that says there is no following image (and
              does not add any padding after the image).

              Version  3  Palm  Bitmaps actually have a nextBitmapOffset field
              instead of the nextDepthOffset.  The foregoing applies to which-
              ever is relevant.

              The  -offset option was new in Netpbm 10.26 (January 2005).  Be-
              fore that, pnmtopalm always set  the  nextDepthOffset  field  to
              "none."

              Before  Netpbm 10.27 (March 2005), you cannot use -offset if you
              create a compressed raster (because pnmtopalm isn't smart enough
              to  be  able to know the size of the image at the time it writes
              the header).  You also cannot use it with 16 bit color depth  or
              with the -colormap option, for much the same reason.

       -withdummy
              This  option tells pnmtopalm to put in the stream, after the im-
              age, a dummy image header to introduce subsequent  high  density
              images.

              This  dummy image header is a special sequence specified in Palm
              Bitmap specifications.  It looks to an older Palm Bitmap  inter-
              preter like an invalid image header, so such an interpreter will
              stop reading the stream there.  But a  new  Palm  Bitmap  inter-
              preter  recognizes it for what it is (just something to choke an
              old interpreter) and skips over it.  Presumably, you will add to
              the stream after this high density images which would confuse an
              older interpreter.

              If you specify -withdummy, you must also specify -offset,  since
              it doesn't make any sense otherwise.

              -withdummy was new in Netpbm 10.27 (March 2005).

       -colormap
              Build a custom colormap and include it in the output file.  This
              is not recommended by Palm, for efficiency reasons.   Otherwise,
              pnmtopalm uses the default Palm colormap for color output.

       -transparent=colorspec
              Marks one particular color as fully transparent.

              colorspec   is   as   described   for   the   argument   of  the
              pnm_parsecolor()                 library                 routine
              <libnetpbm_image.html#colorname> .

              Transparency works only on Palm OS 3.5 and higher.

       -scanline_compression
              Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm scanline
              compression scheme.  Scanline compression works only in Palm  OS
              2.0 and higher.

       -rle_compression
              Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm RLE com-
              pression scheme.  RLE compression works only with  Palm  OS  3.5
              and higher.

       -packbits_compression
              Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm packbits
              compression scheme.  Packbits compression works only  with  Palm
              OS 4.0 and higher.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.27 (March 2005).

       -density=N
              This specifies the Palm Bitmap density.  The density is a number
              that is proportional to the resolution  the  image  should  have
              when displayed.  The proportionality factor is up to whatever is
              doing the displaying, but it's helpful to think of these numbers
              as being pixels per inch.  The allowable values are:

       o      72

       o      108

       o      144

       o      216

       o      288

              This  option  was  new  in  Netpbm  10.27 (March 2005).  Earlier
              Netpbm could not generate Version 3 Palm Bitmaps, so  there  was
              no such thing as density.

SEE ALSO
       palmtopnm(1), pdbimgtopam(1), pnmquant(1), pnmremap(1), pnm(1)

NOTES
       Palm  Bitmaps  may  contains multiple renditions of the same bitmap, in
       different depths.  To construct  an  N-multiple-rendition  Palm  Bitmap
       with  pnmtopalm,  first  construct  renditions  1 through N-1 using the
       -offset option, then construct the Nth image without  the  -offset  op-
       tion.   Then concatenate the individual renditions together in a single
       file using cat.

       If you will include both high density and low density  renditions,  put
       the  high  density  images last and when you create the last of the low
       density images, use the -withdummy option.

       If you specify the Palm packbits compression scheme for a 16-bit direct
       color bitmap, this program generates an invalid bitmap.

AUTHORS
       This program was originally written as ppmtoTbmp.c, by Ian Goldberg and
       George Caswell.  It was completely re-written by Bill  Janssen  to  add
       color,  compression, and transparency function.  Copyright 1995-2001 by
       Ian Goldberg, George Caswell, and Bill Janssen.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmtopalm.html

netpbm documentation            25 August 2017        Pnmtopalm User Manual(1)
