podman-unmount(1)           General Commands Manual          podman-unmount(1)

NAME
       podman-unmount - Unmount a working container's root filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       podman unmount [options] container [...]

       podman umount [options] container [...]

       podman container unmount [options] container [...]

       podman container umount [options] container [...]

DESCRIPTION
       Unmounts  the  specified containers' root file system, if no other pro‐
       cesses are using it.

       Container storage increments a mount counter each time a  container  is
       mounted.   When  a  container is unmounted, the mount counter is decre‐
       mented, and the container's root  filesystem  is  physically  unmounted
       only  when the mount counter reaches zero indicating no other processes
       are using the mount.  An unmount can be forced with the --force flag.

       Note: Podman can be used to unmount Podman containers as well as exter‐
       nal  containers.   External  containers  are containers created in con‐
       tainer/storage by other tools like Buildah and CRI-O.

OPTIONS
   --all, -a
       All of the currently mounted containers will be unmounted.

   --force, -f
       Force the unmounting of specified containers' root file system, even if
       other processes have mounted it.

       Note:  This  could cause other processes that are using the file system
       to fail, as the mount point could be removed without their knowledge.

   --latest, -l
       Instead of providing the container name or ID,  use  the  last  created
       container.  If you use methods other than Podman to run containers such
       as CRI-O, the last started container could  be  from  either  of  those
       methods.  (This  option is not available with the remote Podman client,
       including Mac and Windows (excluding WSL2) machines)

EXAMPLE
       Unmount container with a given ID

              podman container unmount containerID

       Unmount multiple containers with given IDs

              podman unmount containerID1 containerID2 containerID3

       Unmount all containers

              podman unmount --all

SEE ALSO
       podman(1), podman-container-mount(1), podman-image-mount(1)

                                                             podman-unmount(1)
