podman-pod-rm(1)            General Commands Manual           podman-pod-rm(1)

NAME
       podman-pod-rm - Remove one or more stopped pods and containers

SYNOPSIS
       podman pod rm [options] pod

DESCRIPTION
       podman pod rm will remove one or more stopped pods and their containers
       from the host.  The pod name or ID can be used. The -f option stops all
       containers  and  then removes them before removing the pod. If all con-
       tainers added by the user are in an exited state, the pod will  be  re-
       moved.

OPTIONS
   --all, -a
       Remove all pods.  Can be used in conjunction with -f as well.

   --force, -f
       Stop  running  containers  and delete all stopped containers before re-
       moval of pod.

   --ignore, -i
       Ignore errors when specified pods are not in the  container  store.   A
       user  might have decided to manually remove a pod which would lead to a
       failure during the ExecStop directive of a systemd service  referencing
       that pod.

   --latest, -l
       Instead  of  providing the pod name or ID, remove the last created pod.
       (This option is not available with the remote Podman client,  including
       Mac and Windows (excluding WSL2) machines)

   --pod-id-file=file
       Read  pod  ID  from the specified file and rm the pod. Can be specified
       multiple times.

   --time, -t=seconds
       Seconds to wait before forcibly stopping running containers within  the
       pod.

       The --force option must be specified to use the --time option.

EXAMPLE
       Remove pod with a given name

              podman pod rm mywebserverpod

       Remove multiple pods with given names and/or IDs

              podman pod rm mywebserverpod myflaskserverpod 860a4b23

       Forcefully remove pod with a given ID

              podman pod rm -f 860a4b23

       Forcefully remove all pods

              podman pod rm -f -a
              podman pod rm -fa

       Remove pod using ID specified in a given file

              podman pod rm --pod-id-file /path/to/id/file

Exit Status
       0   All specified pods removed

       1   One of the specified pods did not exist, and no other failures

       2   One of the specified pods is attached to a container

       125 The command fails for any other reason

SEE ALSO
       podman(1), podman-pod(1)

HISTORY
       July   2018,   Originally  compiled  by  Peter  Hunt  pehunt@redhat.com
       <mailto:pehunt@redhat.com>

                                                              podman-pod-rm(1)
