Ppmhist User Manual(1)      General Commands Manual     Ppmhist User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmhist - print a histogram of the colors in a PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       ppmhist  [-hexcolor  | -float | -colorname | -map] [-nomap] [-noheader]
       [-sort={frequency,rgb}] [-forensic] [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmhist reads a PPM image as input and generates  a  histogram  of  the
       colors  in the image, i.e. a list of all the colors and how many pixels
       of each color are in the image.

   Output Format
       The output is in one of two basic formats:  a report for humans  and  a
       PPM  image  for use by programs.  The PPM image is actually quite read‐
       able by humans too.

       Human Report

       You get this format by specifying (or defaulting to) the -nomap option.

       The format is one line for each color in the input image.

       By default, there are two lines of column header and a summary  at  the
       top.  Use the -noheader option to suppress those lines.

       The  summary  tells you whether black or white are present and how many
       shades of gray and color are present.  The summary was  new  in  Netpbm
       10.82 (March 2018).

       In each line, ppmhist identifies the color by red, green, and blue com‐
       ponents.  By default, it lists each of these in decimal, using the  ex‐
       act  values that are in the PPM input.  So if the image has a maxval of
       255, the numbers in the listing range from 0 to 255.   With  the  -hex‐
       color  option,  you  can change these numbers to hexadecimal.  With the
       -float option, the numbers are fractional, adjusted to a maxval of 1.

       Each line lists the luminosity of the color.  It is in decimal  on  the
       same scale as the rgb values (see above).

       Each  line lists the number of pixels in the image that have the color.
       This is in decimal.

       PPM Output

       You get this format with the -map option.

       The output file is a genuine PPM image, but it is PPM Plain format  and
       contains  comments so that it is not a lot different from the human re‐
       port described above.

       As a PPM image, it can be useful as input to other programs  that  need
       some  kind  of  palette.  The image is a single row with one column for
       each distinct color in the image.

       The function of PPM output is essentially the same as the output of pn‐
       mcolormap all.  ppmhist is much older than pnmcolormap.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ),  ppmhist  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -sort={frequency,rgb}
              The  -sort  option  determines the order in which the colors are
              listed in the output.  rgb means to sort them first by  the  in‐
              tensity  of  the  red component of the color, then of the green,
              then of the blue, with the least intense first.  frequency means
              to list them in order of how many pixels in the input image have
              the color, with the most represented colors first.  Among colors
              with the same frequency, the order is the same as with rgb.

              The default is frequency.

              Before  Netpbm 10.88 (September 2019), with -sort=frequency, the
              order of colors that have the same frequency is arbitrary.

       -hexcolor
              Print the color components in hexadecimal.   See  output  format
              ⟨#output⟩ .

              You may not specify this option along with -float or map.

       -float Print  the color components and the luminosity as floating point
              numbers in the range [0,1].  See output format ⟨#output⟩ .

              You may not specify this option along with -hexcolor or map.

              This option was added in Netpbm 10.19 (November 2003).

       -map   Generates a PPM file of the colormap for  the  image,  with  the
              color histogram as comments.  See output format ⟨#output⟩ .

              You may not specify this option along with -float or hexcolor.

       -nomap Generates the histogram for human reading.  This is the default.

       -colorname
              Add  the  color  name  to the output.  This is the name from the
              system color dictionary ⟨libppm.html#dictionary⟩ .  If the exact
              color  is  not  in the color dictionary, it is the closest color
              that is in the dictionary and is preceded  by  a  '*'.   If  you
              don't have a system color dictionary, the program fails.

              This option was added in Netpbm 10.10 (October 2002).

       -noheader
              Do not print the column headings.

       -forensic

              With  this  option, ppmhist works on images that contain invalid
              sample values.  Normally, like  most  Netpbm  programs,  ppmhist
              fails  if  it  encounters a sample value greater than the maxval
              that the image declares.  The presence of such a value means the
              image  is  invalid,  so  the  pixels  have no meaning.  But with
              -forensic, ppmhist produces a histogram  of  the  actual  sample
              values without regard to maxval.  It issues messages summarizing
              the invalid pixels if there are any.

              One use for this is to diagnose the problem that caused the  in‐
              valid Netpbm image to exist.

              There  is a small exception to the ability of ppmhist to process
              invalid pixels even with -forensic: it can never process a  sam‐
              ple  value  greater  than  65535.   Note that in the rarely used
              Plain PPM format, it is possible for a number greater than  that
              to appear where a sample value belongs.

              This  option  was  new in Netpbm 10.66 (March 2014).  But Netpbm
              older than 10.66 does not properly reject invalid sample values,
              so the effect is very similar to -forensic.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(1), pgmhist(1), pnmcolormap(1), pnmhistmap(1), ppmchange(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmhist.html

netpbm documentation            24 August 2019          Ppmhist User Manual(1)