Ppmntsc User Manual(1)      General Commands Manual     Ppmntsc User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmntsc - Make RGB colors legal for NTSC or PAL color systems.

SYNOPSIS
       ppmntsc

       [--pal]  [--legalonly]  [--illegalonly]  [--correctedonly]  [--verbose]
       [--debug] [infile]

       Minimum unique abbreviations of options are acceptable.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       This program makes colors legal in the NTSC  (or  PAL)  color  systems.
       Often,  images  generated  on  the  computer are made for use in movies
       which ultimately end up on a television screen.  However, the range  of
       colors  (as specified by their RGB values) on a computer does not match
       the range of colors that can be represented using  the  NTSC  (or  PAL)
       systems.  If an image with "illegal" colors is sent directly to an NTSC
       (or PAL) video system for  recording,  the  "illegal"  colors  will  be
       clipped.  This may result in an undesirable looking picture.

       This utility tests each pixel in an image to see if it falls within the
       legal NTSC (or PAL) range.  If not, it raises  or  lowers  the  pixel's
       saturation  in  the  output  so  that it does fall within legal limits.
       Pixels that are already OK just go unmodified into the output.

       Input is from the file named input.  If input is -, input is from Stan‐
       dard Input.  If you don't specify input, input is from Standard Input.

       Output is always to Standard Output.

       This  program  handles multi-image PPM input, producing multi-image PPM
       output.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩  ), ppmntsc recognizes the
       following command line options:

       --pal  Use the PAL transform instead of the default NTSC.

       --verbose
              Print a grand total of the number of illegal pixels.

       --debug
              Produce a humongous listing of illegal colors  and  their  legal
              counterparts.   NOTE:   This  option may produce a great deal of
              output.

       --legalonly
              Output only pixels that are  already  legal.   Output  black  in
              place of pixels that are not.

       --illegalonly
              Output  only  pixels  that  are  illegal (and output them uncor‐
              rected).  Output black in place of pixels that are  already  le‐
              gal.

       --correctedonly
              Output  only  pixels that are corrected versions of illegal pix‐
              els.  Output black in place of pixels that are already legal.

SEE ALSO
       pamdepth(1), ppmdim(1), pambrighten(1), ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Wes Barris, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc., Bryan Henderson

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmntsc.html

netpbm documentation             19 April 2000          Ppmntsc User Manual(1)