Ppmquant User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Ppmquant User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmquant  - quantize the colors in a PPM image down to a specified num‐
       ber

SYNOPSIS
       ppmquant   [-floyd|-fs]   ncolors   [ppmfile]   ppmquant   [-floyd|-fs]
       [-nofloyd|-nofs] -mapfile mapfile [ppmfile]

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
       may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may use
       either  white  space  or  equals  signs  between an option name and its
       value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmquant is obsolete.  All it does now is invoke pnmquant or  pnmremap.
       You  should use one of those programs in any new program, or if you are
       modifying an old program, and your program does not have to work with a
       version of Netpbm before 9.21 (January 2001).  ppmquant exists only for
       name compatibility.

       pnmquant is fully backward compatible with ppmquant without  the  -map‐
       file  option;  pnmremap is fully backward compatible with ppmquant with
       the -mapfile option.

       Except with differences suggested by the  syntax  synopsis  above,  pp‐
       mquant's function is the same as pnmquant and pnmremap.

       Before Netpbm 10.19 (November 2003), ppmquant was a completely separate
       program from pnmquant, and was a bona fide PPM program.  That means  if
       you  gave  it a PGM or PBM image as input, it would process it as if it
       were PPM and generate a PPM output.  Now, since it is really a PNM pro‐
       gram, it processes PBM and PGM inputs as what they are and produces the
       same kind of output.

       Note: The reason ppmquant was changed in Netpbm 10.19 is that for  some
       time  before that, ppmquant had a serious bug that would have been dif‐
       ficult to fix -- it chose the wrong color set.   Maintaining  two  ver‐
       sions of the same code did not make sense.

SEE ALSO
       pnmquant(1), pnmremap(1), pnmcolormap(1), pamseq(1), ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmquant.html

netpbm documentation            22 October 2003        Ppmquant User Manual(1)
