Ppmtobmp User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Ppmtobmp User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmtobmp - convert a PPM image into a BMP file

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtobmp

       [-windows]

       [-os2]

       [-bpp=bits_per_pixel]

       [-mapfile=filename]

       [ppmfile]

       Minimum  unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use dou‐
       ble hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options.   You  may  use
       white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from
       its value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmtobmp reads a PPM image as input and produces a Microsoft Windows or
       OS/2 BMP file as output.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), ppmtobmp  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -windows
              Tells  the  program  to  produce  a  Microsoft Windows BMP file.
              (This is the default.)

       -os2   Tells the program to produce an OS/2 BMP file.   (Before  August
              2000, this was the default).

       -bpp   This tells how many bits per pixel you want the BMP file to con‐
              tain.  Only 1, 4, 8, and 24 are possible.  By default,  ppmtobmp
              chooses  the smallest number with which it can represent all the
              colors in the input image.  If you specify a number too small to
              represent  all the colors in the input image, ppmtobmp tells you
              and terminates.  You can use pnmquant or ppmdither to reduce the
              number of colors in the image.

              Before  Netpbm  10.85 (December 2018), ppmtobmp ignores this op‐
              tion if the input is PBM and produces  a  BMP  with  1  bit  per
              pixel.   With  these  versions,  if you want more than that, use
              pbmtopgm to convert the PBM to PGM first.

       -mapfile=filename
              This identifies a file to use as  the  BMP  palette  (aka  "col‐
              ormap").   In  one BMP subformat, the BMP stream contains a pal‐
              ette of up to 256 colors, and represents the image raster as in‐
              dices  into that palette.  Normally, ppmtobmp takes care of com‐
              puting a suitable palette, but if you are going to  dissect  the
              BMP output in some way, you may want certain values for the pal‐
              ette indices.  E.g. you might want red to be 13, where  ppmtobmp
              would  (arbitrarily) choose 39.  In that case, you can construct
              the palette yourself and use this option to tell ppmtobmp to use
              your palette.

              This option does not control what colors are in the output.  The
              colors in the output are exactly those in  the  input,  and  the
              palette you supply must contain at least all the colors that are
              in the input.  You can use pnmremap to adjust your  input  image
              so that it contains only colors from your palette.

              The palette file is a Netpbm format file with one pixel per pal‐
              ette entry.  Each pixel must have a distinct color (no repeats).
              The  order of the BMP palette ppmtobmp generates is the order of
              the pixels in the palette file, going from top to  bottom,  left
              to right.

              A  BMP  palette may have at most 256 colors, so the palette file
              must have at most 256 pixels.

              You may find pnmcolormap useful in generating the palette  file.
              pamseq too.

              In  the  case  of grayscale image, if you are processing the BMP
              image, it
                may be convenient for you to have the actual  gray  values  in
              the raster
                part  of  the  image rather than arbitrary indices into a pal‐
              ette.  There is
                no BMP format specifically for that, but you can achieve it by
              using a
                palette  in  which  each  index  is  equal to the indexed gray
              value, and then
                ignoring the palette when you process the BMP image.

              Here is an example of doing that:

                  $ pamseq 1 255 > mapfile.pgm

                  $ ppmtobmp -mapfile=mapfile.pgm input.pgm > output.bmp

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.45 (December 2008).

NOTES
       To get a faithful reproduction of the input image, the  maxval  of  the
       input  image  must  be 255.  If it is something else, the colors in the
       BMP file may be slightly different from the colors in the input.

       Windows icons are not BMP files.  Use ppmtowinicon to create those.

SEE ALSO
       bmptoppm(1), ppmtowinicon(1), pnmquant(1),  ppmdither(1),  pnmremap(1),
       ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1992 by David W. Sanderson.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmtobmp.html

netpbm documentation           20 December 2018        Ppmtobmp User Manual(1)