Ppmtoicr User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Ppmtoicr User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmtoicr - convert a PPM image into NCSA ICR format

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtoicr

       [-windowname name]

       [-expand expand]

       [-display display]

       [-rle]

       [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmtoicr  reads  a PPM file as input.  Produces an NCSA Telnet Interac‐
       tive Color Raster graphic file as output.

       If ppmfile is not supplied, ppmtoicr reads from Standard Input.

       Interactive Color Raster (ICR) is  a  protocol  for  displaying  raster
       graphics  on  workstation  screens. The protocol is implemented in NCSA
       Telnet for the Macintosh version 2.3.  The ICR protocol shares  charac‐
       teristics  of  the Tektronix graphics terminal emulation protocol.  For
       example, escape sequences are used to control the display.

       ppmtoicr will output the appropriate sequences to create  a  window  of
       the  dimensions of the input image, create a colormap of up to 256 col‐
       ors on the display, then load the picture data into the window.

       Note that there is no icrtoppm tool - this transformation is one way.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), ppmtoicr recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -windowname name
              Output will be displayed in name (Default is to use  ppmfile  or
              "untitled" if the input is from Standard Input).

       -expand expand
              Output  will  be expanded on display by factor expand (For exam‐
              ple, a value of 2 will cause four pixels to be displayed for ev‐
              ery input pixel.)

       -display display
              Output will be displayed on screen numbered display

EXAMPLES
       To display a PPM file named ppmfile using the protocol:

           ppmtoicr ppmfile

       This will create a window named ppmfile on the display with the correct
       dimensions for ppmfile, create and download a colormap  of  up  to  256
       colors,  and download the picture into the window.  You may achieve the
       same effect with the following sequence:

           ppmtoicr ppmfile > filename
           cat filename

       To display a GIF file using the protocol in a window titled  after  the
       input  file,  zoom the displayed image by a factor of 2, and run-length
       encode the data:

           giftopnm giffile | ppmtoicr -w giffile -r -e 2

LIMITATIONS
       The protocol uses frequent fflush() calls to speed up display.  If  you
       save the output to a file for later display via cat, ppmtoicr will draw
       much more slowly.  In either case, increasing the  blocksize  limit  on
       the display will speed up transmission substantially.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(1)

       NCSA  Telnet  for the Macintosh, University of Illinois at Urbana-Cham‐
       paign (1989)

HISTORY
       Until Netpbm 10.71 (June 2015), there was  a  -rle  option  documented,
       which  was said to cause the output to use run length encoding compres‐
       sion.  But because of a simple bug in option processing code,  the  op‐
       tion  never had any effect.  And the compression code did not look like
       it worked anyway and would take a fair amount of work to fix.   Because
       it  was  unlikely  anyone  would ever use this program again, much less
       want to use run length encoding, we removed it from  the  documentation
       rather than fix the code.

AUTHOR
       Copyright  (C) 1990 by Kanthan Pillay (svpillay@Princeton.EDU), Prince‐
       ton University Computing and Information Technology.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmtoicr.html

netpbm documentation             05 June 2015          Ppmtoicr User Manual(1)