Ppmtosixel User Manual(1)   General Commands Manual  Ppmtosixel User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmtosixel - convert a PPM image to DEC sixel format

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtosixel

       [-raw]

       [-margin]

       [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmtosixel reads a PPM image as input and produces sixel commands (SIX)
       as output.  The output is formatted for color printing, e.g. for a  DEC
       LJ250 color inkjet printer.

       If  RGB  values  from  the  PPM file do not have maxval=100, ppmtosixel
       rescales them to maxval 100.  A printer control header and a color  as‐
       signment  table begin the SIX file.  Image data is in a compressed for‐
       mat by default.  A printer control footer ends the image file.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), ppmtosixel recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -raw   If you specify this, each pixel will be explicitly described  in
              the  image  file.  If -raw is not specified, output will default
              to compressed format in which identical adjacent pixels are  re‐
              placed by "repeat pixel" commands.  A raw file is often an order
              of magnitude larger than  a  compressed  file  and  prints  much
              slower.

       -margin
              If  you  don't specify -margin, the image will start at the left
              margin (of the window, paper, or whatever).  If you  do  specify
              -margin, a 1.5 inch left margin will offset the image.

PRINTING
       Generally,  sixel files must reach the printer unfiltered.  Use the lpr
       -x option or cat filename > /dev/tty0?.

LIMITATIONS
       Upon rescaling, truncation of the least significant bits of RGB  values
       may  result  in  poor color conversion.  If the original PPM maxval was
       greater than 100, rescaling also reduces the image  depth.   While  the
       actual  RGB  values  from  the  ppm file are more or less retained, the
       color palette of the LJ250 may not match the  colors  on  your  screen.
       This seems to be a printer limitation.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Rick Vinci.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmtosixel.html

netpbm documentation             26 April 1991       Ppmtosixel User Manual(1)
