Ppmtopgm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Ppmtopgm User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmtopgm - convert a PPM image to a PGM image

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtopgm

       [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmtopgm reads a PPM as input and produces a PGM as output.  The output
       is a "black and white" rendering of the original image, as in  a  black
       and  white  photograph.   The quantization formula ppmtopgm uses is y =
       .299 r + .587 g + .114 b.

       The dimensions and maxval of the output are  the  same  as  the  input.
       Note  that  with only one color plane, there are far fewer brightnesses
       that can be represented with the same  maxval  than  with  three  color
       planes,  so  you  may  want  to  increase  the maxval of the input with
       pamdepth before giving it to ppmtopgm to  avoid  loss  of  information.
       For example, with a maxval of 1, there are 8 brightnesses that are pos‐
       sible in a PPM (though some of them are  barely  distinguishable),  but
       only 2 brightness levels possible in a PGM.

       Note that although there is a pgmtoppm program, it is not necessary for
       simple conversions from pgm to ppm , because any ppm program  can  read
       pgm  (and  pbm ) files automatically.  pgmtoppm is for colorizing a pgm
       file.  Also, see ppmtorgb3 for a different way of converting  color  to
       gray.   And ppmdist generates a grayscale image from a color image, but
       in a way that makes it easy to differentiate the original  colors,  not
       necessarily a way that looks like a black and white photograph.

OPTIONS
       There  are  no  command line options defined specifically for ppmtopgm,
       but it recognizes the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (See
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ .)

QUOTE
       Cold-hearted orb that rules the night
       Removes the colors from our sight
       Red is gray, and yellow white
       But we decide which is right
       And which is a quantization error.

SEE ALSO
       pgmtoppm(1), ppmtorgb3(1), rgb3toppm(1), ppmdist(1), ppm(1), pgm(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmtopgm.html

netpbm documentation             25 June 2017          Ppmtopgm User Manual(1)
