Ppmwheel User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Ppmwheel User Manual(1)

NAME
       ppmwheel - make a PPM image of a color wheel

SYNOPSIS
       ppmwheel diameter [{-huevalue | -huesaturation}] [-maxval=N]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       ppmwheel  produces a PPM image of a color wheel of the specified diame‐
       ter inside a white square just large enough to hold it.

       The color wheel is based on the HSV color model.  Hues are distributed
         angularly around the circle and the values and saturations  are  dis‐
       tributed
         radially.

       You can generate three kinds of color wheel:

       •      Hue-value: Select this with a -huevalue option.

              The  saturation is 100% everywhere.  The value goes from zero to
              100%
                linearly, from the center of the wheel to the  edge.   So  the
              center is black.

              Hence,  the  image consists of all of the secondary colors based
              on the
                red, green, and blue primary colors.  A secondary color is one
              that is
                composed of light of at most two of the three primary colors.

       •      Hue-saturation: Select this with a -huesaturation option.

              The  value is 100% everywhere.  The saturation goes from zero to
              100%
                linearly, from the center of the wheel to the  edge.   So  the
              center is white.

       •      Ppmcirc:  Select this by not specifying any other wheel type op‐
              tion.

              The saturation is 100% everywhere.  The value is a strange func‐
              tion of
                the distance from the center, increasing as the square root of
              the distance
                until halfway out, then decreasing as the 8th root of the dis‐
              tance the rest
                of  the  way.  We don't know what the point of this is, but it
              is what the
                program Ppmcirc by Peter Kirchgessner in 1995  does,  and  was
              the only option
                in ppmwheel from its inception in 2003 to 2019.

ARGUMENTS
       You must specify one non-option argument: the radius of the color wheel
       in pixels.

       This is also the height and width of the output image.

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), ppmwheel recognizes the
       following command line options:

       -huevalue

              This selects a hue-value color wheel.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -huesaturation

              This selects a hue-saturation color wheel.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

       -maxval=N

              This selects the maxval for the image.  The default is 255.

              This option was new in Netpbm 10.86 (March 2019).

SEE ALSO
       ppmcie(1), ppmrainbow(1), ppm(1)

HISTORY
       ppmwheel was added to Netpbm in Release 10.14 (March 2003).

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1995 by Peter Kirchgessner

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmwheel.html

netpbm documentation           03 February 2019        Ppmwheel User Manual(1)