RDMA-SYSTEM(8)                       Linux                      RDMA-SYSTEM(8)

NAME
       rdma-system - RDMA subsystem configuration

SYNOPSIS
       rdma [ OPTIONS ] sys  { COMMAND | help }

       OPTIONS := { -V[ersion] | -d[etails] }

       rdma system show

       rdma system set netns NEWMODE

       rdma system set privileged-qkey NEWSTATE

       rdma system help

DESCRIPTION
   rdma system set - set RDMA subsystem network namespace mode or
       privileged qkey mode

   rdma system show - display RDMA subsystem network namespace mode,
       privileged qkey state and whether RDMA monitoring is supported.

       NEWMODE - specifies the RDMA subsystem mode. Either exclusive or
       shared.  When user wants to assign dedicated RDMA device to a particu‐
       lar network namespace, exclusive mode should be set before creating any
       network namespace. If there are active network namespaces and if one or
       more RDMA devices exist, changing mode from shared to exclusive returns
       error code EBUSY.

       When RDMA subsystem is in shared mode, RDMA device is accessible in all
       network namespace. When RDMA device isolation among multiple network
       namespaces is not needed, shared mode can be used.

       It is preferred to not change the subsystem mode when there is active
       RDMA traffic running, even though it is supported.

       NEWSTATE - Specifies the new state of the privileged-qkey parameter,
       either on or off.  This parameter determines whether a non-privileged
       user is allowed to specify a controlled QKEY or not.

EXAMPLES
       rdma system show
           Shows the state of RDMA subsystem network namespace mode on the
           system, the state of privileged qkey parameter and whether RDMA
           monitor is supported.

       rdma system set netns exclusive
           Sets the RDMA subsystem in network namespace exclusive mode. In
           this mode RDMA devices are visible only in single network name‐
           space.

       rdma system set netns shared
           Sets the RDMA subsystem in network namespace shared mode. In this
           mode RDMA devices are shared among network namespaces.

       rdma system set privileged-qkey on
           Sets the privileged-qkey parameter to on. In this state non-privi‐
           leged user is allowed to specify a controlled QKEY.

       rdma system set privileged-qkey off
           Sets the privileged-qkey parameter to off. In this state non-privi‐
           leged user is *not* allowed to specify a controlled QKEY.

SEE ALSO
       rdma(8), rdma-link(8), rdma-resource(8), rdma-monitor(8), network_name‐
       spaces(7), namespaces(7),

AUTHOR
       Parav Pandit <parav@mellanox.com>

iproute2                          06 Jul 2017                   RDMA-SYSTEM(8)
