REWINDDIR(3POSIX)          POSIX Programmer's Manual         REWINDDIR(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rewinddir — reset the position of a directory stream to  the  beginning
       of a directory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <dirent.h>

       void rewinddir(DIR *dirp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  rewinddir()  function  shall  reset  the position of the directory
       stream to which dirp refers to the beginning of the directory. It shall
       also  cause  the  directory stream to refer to the current state of the
       corresponding directory, as a call to opendir()  would  have  done.  If
       dirp does not refer to a directory stream, the effect is undefined.

       After  a  call  to the fork() function, either the parent or child (but
       not both) may continue processing the directory stream using readdir(),
       rewinddir(),  or seekdir().  If both the parent and child processes use
       these functions, the result is undefined.

RETURN VALUE
       The rewinddir() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The rewinddir() function should be used in conjunction with  opendir(),
       readdir(),  and  closedir()  to  examine the contents of the directory.
       This method is recommended for portability.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       closedir(), fdopendir(), readdir()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <dirent.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                    REWINDDIR(3POSIX)
