RMDIR(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             RMDIR(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       rmdir — remove directories

SYNOPSIS
       rmdir [-p] dir...

DESCRIPTION
       The rmdir utility shall remove the directory entry  specified  by  each
       dir operand.

       For  each  dir operand, the rmdir utility shall perform actions equiva‐
       lent to the rmdir() function called with the dir operand  as  its  only
       argument.

       Directories  shall  be processed in the order specified. If a directory
       and a subdirectory of that directory are specified in a single  invoca‐
       tion  of the rmdir utility, the application shall specify the subdirec‐
       tory before the parent directory so that the parent directory  will  be
       empty when the rmdir utility tries to remove it.

OPTIONS
       The  rmdir  utility  shall  conform  to  the Base Definitions volume of
       POSIX.1‐2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

       The following option shall be supported:

       -p        Remove all directories in a pathname. For each dir operand:

                  1. The directory entry it names shall be removed.

                  2. If the dir operand includes more than one pathname compo‐
                     nent,  effects  equivalent to the following command shall
                     occur:

                         rmdir -p $(dirname dir)

OPERANDS
       The following operand shall be supported:

       dir       A pathname of an empty directory to be removed.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment  variables  shall  affect  the  execution  of
       rmdir:

       LANG      Provide  a  default  value for the internationalization vari‐
                 ables that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions  vol‐
                 ume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization Vari‐
                 ables for the precedence  of  internationalization  variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If  set  to  a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine the locale for the interpretation of  sequences  of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and  contents  of diagnostic messages written to standard er‐
                 ror.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       Not used.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Each  directory entry specified by a dir operand was removed suc‐
             cessfully.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The definition of an empty directory is one that contains, at most, di‐
       rectory entries for dot and dot-dot.

EXAMPLES
       If a directory a in the current directory is empty except it contains a
       directory b and a/b is empty except it contains a directory c:

           rmdir -p a/b/c

       removes all three directories.

RATIONALE
       On historical System V systems, the -p option also caused a message  to
       be  written  to  the standard output. The message indicated whether the
       whole path was removed or whether part of the path  remained  for  some
       reason.  The  STDERR  section  requires this diagnostic when the entire
       path specified by a dir operand is not removed, but does not allow  the
       status message reporting success to be written as a diagnostic.

       The rmdir utility on System V also included a -s option that suppressed
       the informational message output by the -p option. This option has been
       omitted because the informational message is not specified by this vol‐
       ume of POSIX.1‐2017.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       rm

       The Base Definitions volume of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  8,  Environment
       Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

       The  System  Interfaces  volume of POSIX.1‐2017, remove(), rmdir(), un‐
       link()

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        RMDIR(1POSIX)