RSHD(8) BSD System Manager’s Manual RSHD(8)

NAME

rshd — remote shell
server

SYNOPSIS

rshd [-an]

DESCRIPTION

The rshd server is the
server for the rcmd(3) routine and, consequently, for the
rsh(1) program. The server provides remote execution
facilities with authentication based on privileged port
numbers from trusted hosts.

The rshd
server listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the ’’cmd’’ service specification;
see services(5). When a service request is received the
following protocol is initiated:

1.

The server checks the
client’s source port. If the port is not in the range
512-1023, the server aborts the connection.

2.

The server reads characters
from the socket up to a null (’\0’) byte. The
resultant string is interpreted as an ASCII number, base
10.

3.

If the number received in step
2 is non-zero, it is interpreted as the port number of a
secondary stream to be used for the stderr. A second
connection is then created to the specified port on the
client’s machine. The source port of this second
connection is also in the range 512-1023.

4.

The server checks the
client’s source address and requests the corresponding
host name (see gethostbyaddr(3), hosts(5) and named(8)). If
the hostname cannot be determined, the dot-notation
representation of the host address is used. If the hostname
is in the same domain as the server (according to the last
two components of the domain name), or if the -a
option is given, the addresses for the hostname are
requested, verifying that the name and address correspond.
If address verification fails, the connection is aborted
with the message, ’’Host address
mismatch.’’

5.

A null terminated user name of
at most 16 characters is retrieved on the initial socket.
This user name is interpreted as the user identity on the
client’s machine.

6.

A null terminated user name of
at most 16 characters is retrieved on the initial socket.
This user name is interpreted as a user identity to use on
the server’s machine.

7.

A null terminated command to be
passed to a shell is retrieved on the initial socket. The
length of the command is limited by the upper bound on the
size of the system’s argument list.

8.

Rshd then validates the
user using PAM, which uses the file
/etc/hosts.equiv and the .rhosts file found in
the user’s home directory. Due to the way the protocol
was designed, it is not possible to exchange information
other than those specified here for authentication. Thus PAM
authentication modules such as pam_unix should not be used
with this service.

Also note that
the design of the .rhosts system is COMPLETELY
INSECURE except on a carefully firewalled private network.
Under all other circumstances, rshd should be
disabled entirely.

9.

A null byte is returned on the
initial socket and the command line is passed to the normal
login shell of the user. The shell inherits the network
connections established by rshd.

Transport-level
keepalive messages are enabled unless the -n option
is present. The use of keepalive messages allows sessions to
be timed out if the client crashes or becomes
unreachable.

DIAGNOSTICS

Except for the last one listed
below, all diagnostic messages are returned on the initial
socket, after which any network connections are closed. An
error is indicated by a leading byte with a value of 1 (0 is
returned in step 9 above upon successful completion of all
the steps prior to the execution of the login shell).

Locuser too long.

The name of the user on the
client’s machine is longer than 16 characters.

Ruser too long.

The name of the user on the
remote machine is longer than 16 characters.

Command too long.

The command line passed exceeds
the size of the argument list (as configured into the
system).

Remote directory.

The chdir command to the home
directory failed.

Permission denied.

The authentication procedure
described above failed, or the user requested did not exist.
(These conditions are intentionally conflated.)

Can’t make
pipe.

The pipe needed for the
stderr, wasn’t created.

Can’t fork; try
again.

A fork by the server
failed.

:
...

The user’s login shell
could not be started. This message is returned on the
connection associated with the stderr, and is not
preceded by a flag byte.

SEE ALSO

rsh(1), rcmd(3), pam(8)

BUGS

The authentication procedure
used here assumes the integrity of each client machine and
the connecting medium. This is insecure, but is useful in an
’’open’’ environment.

A facility to
allow all data exchanges to be encrypted should be
present.

A more
extensible protocol (such as Telnet) should be used.

Linux NetKit
(0.17) April 20, 1991 Linux NetKit (0.17)