sane-pnm(5)              SANE Scanner Access Now Easy              sane-pnm(5)

NAME
       sane-pnm - SANE PNM image reader pseudo-backend

DESCRIPTION
       The  sane-pnm library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) back‐
       end that provides access to PNM (Portable aNyMap  files,  which  covers
       PBM bitmap files, PGM grayscale files, and PPM pixmap files).  The pur‐
       pose of this backend is primarily to aid in debugging  of  SANE  front‐
       ends.   It  also  serves  as  an illustrative example of a minimal SANE
       backend.

DEVICE NAMES
       This backend provides two devices called 0 and 1.

CONFIGURATION
       No configuration required.

FILES
       /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane/libsane-pnm.a
              The static library implementing this backend.

       /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane/libsane-pnm.so
              The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems
              that support dynamic loading).

ENVIRONMENT
       SANE_DEBUG_PNM
              If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this en‐
              vironment variable controls the debug level  for  this  backend.
              E.g.,  a  value  of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.
              Smaller levels reduce verbosity.

BUGS
       If the sane-pnm backend is installed and  saned(8)  is  used  to  allow
       users  on  remote computers to scan on the local machine, PNM files can
       be read by the remote user. This is limited to the files  saned(8)  can
       access (usually it's running as user "sane"). All PNM files can be read
       if saned(8) runs as root which isn't recommended anyway.  The  sane-pnm
       backend  is  disabled by default. If you want to use it, enable it with
       configure (see configure --help for details). Be sure that only trusted
       users can access the sane-pnm backend over saned(8).

AUTHOR
       Andreas Beck, Gordon Matzigkeit, and David Mosberger

SEE ALSO
       sane(7), saned(8)

                                  14 Jul 2008                      sane-pnm(5)
