NAME

send-pr −
submit a GNATS Problem Report (PR) to a support site

SYNOPSIS

send-pr

[ −−batch | −b ]

[ −−database=database | −d database ]

[ −−file=file | −f file ]

[ −−print | −p ]

[ −−request-id ] 

[ −−severity=severity | −s severity ]

[ −−help | −h ]
[ −−version | −V ]

DESCRIPTION

send-pr
invokes an editor on a problem report template (after trying
to fill in some fields with reasonable default values). When
you exit the editor, send-pr submits the completed
form to the GNATS system at a central support site, either
directly over the network to the GNATS server or by e-mail.
At the support site, the PR is assigned a unique number and
is stored in the GNATS database according to its category
and submitter-id. GNATS automatically replies with an
acknowledgement, citing the category and the PR number.

To ensure that
a PR is handled promptly, it should contain your (unique)
submitter-id and one of the available
categories to identify the problem area.

The more
precise your problem description and the more complete your
information, the faster your support team can solve your
problems.

Note: use
send-pr to submit problem reports rather than mailing
them directly. Using both the template and send-pr
itself will help ensure that all necessary information will
reach the support site.

OPTIONS

−b, −−batch

Suppresses printing of most of
the messages that send-pr usually prints while
running.

−d
database, −−database=database

Specifies the database to which
the PR is to be submitted; if no database is specified, the
local database named default is assumed. This option
overrides the database specified in the GNATSDB
environment variable.

−f file, −−file=file

Specifies a file where a
completed Problem Report or a PR template exists.
send-pr verifies that the contents of the file
constitute a valid PR and asks the user whether the PR
should be submitted directly or edited first. If the PR text
is invalid, the user will be notified and given the option
to edit it. If file is set to ’-’,
send-pr reads from standard input.

−p, −−print

Displays the PR template for
the specified database, or if the -d or
--database options are not specified, print the
template for the local database default. No PR is
submitted when this option is used.

−−request-id

Sends a request for a Submitter
Id to the support site.

−s severity, −−severity=severity

Sets the initial value of the
Severity field to severity.

−−version, −V

Displays the version number of
the program.

−−help, −h

Prints a brief usage
message.

ENVIRONMENT

The environment
variable EDITOR specifies the editor to invoke on the
template. 
default: vi

HOW TO FILL OUT A PROBLEM REPORT

Problem reports
have to be in a particular form so that a program can easily
manage them. Please remember the following guidelines:

•

describe only one problem with each problem
report. 

•

For follow-up mail, use the same subject line as the one
in the automatic acknowledgent. It consists of category, PR
number and the original synopsis line. This allows the
support site to relate several mail messages to a particular
PR and to record them automatically.

•

Please try to be as accurate as possible in the subject
and/or synopsis line.

•

The subject and the synopsis line are not confidential.
This is because open-bugs lists are compiled from them.
Avoid confidential information there.

See the GNU
Info file gnats.info or the document
Keeping Track: Managing Messages With GNATS for
detailed information on reporting problems.

FILES

/etc/gnats/send-pr.conf
The send-pr configuration file 
$HOME/.send-pr.conf User-specific send-pr
configuration file 
/tmp/p$$ copy of PR used in editing session 
/tmp/pf$$ copy of empty PR form, for testing purposes 
/tmp/pbad$$ file for rejected PRs

EMACS USER INTERFACE

An Emacs user
interface for send-pr with completion of field values
is part of the send-pr distribution (invoked with
M-x send-pr). See the file gnats.info in the
doc subdirectory of the distribution for configuration,
installation and usage information, or see Keeping Track:
Managing Messages With GNATS

INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION

See
gnats.info or INSTALL for installation
instructions.

SEE ALSO

Keeping
Track: Managing Messages With GNATS (also installed as
the GNU Info file gnats.info)

databases(5),
dbconfig(5), delete-pr(8), edit-pr(1)
file-pr(8), gen-index(8), gnats(7),
gnatsd(8), mkcat(8), mkdb(8),
pr-edit(8), query-pr(1), queue-pr(8),
send-pr(1).

AUTHORS

Jeffrey Osier,
Brendan Kehoe, Jason Merrill, Heinz G. Seidl (Cygnus
Support), Yngve Svendsen.

COPYING

Copyright (c)
1992, 1993, 2002, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is
granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission
notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is
granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided
that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under
the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is
granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for
modified versions, except that this permission notice may be
included in translations approved by the Free Software
Foundation instead of in the original English.