SETBUF(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SETBUF(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setbuf — assign buffering to a stream

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       void setbuf(FILE *restrict stream, char *restrict buf);

DESCRIPTION
       The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with  the
       ISO C  standard.  Any  conflict between the requirements described here
       and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017
       defers to the ISO C standard.

       Except that it returns no value, the function call:

           setbuf(stream, buf)

       shall be equivalent to:

           setvbuf(stream, buf, _IOFBF, BUFSIZ)

       if buf is not a null pointer, or to:

           setvbuf(stream, buf, _IONBF, BUFSIZ)

       if buf is a null pointer.

RETURN VALUE
       The setbuf() function shall not return a value.

ERRORS
       Although  the  setvbuf()  interface  may set errno in defined ways, the
       value of errno after a call to setbuf() is unspecified.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       A common source of error is allocating buffer space as an ``automatic''
       variable  in  a code block, and then failing to close the stream in the
       same block.

       With setbuf(), allocating a buffer of BUFSIZ bytes does not necessarily
       imply that all of BUFSIZ bytes are used for the buffer area.

       Since  errno  is  not  required to be unchanged on success, in order to
       correctly detect and possibly recover from errors, applications  should
       use setvbuf() instead of setbuf().

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       Section 2.5, Standard I/O Streams, fopen(), setvbuf()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdio.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       SETBUF(3POSIX)
