SETGID(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            SETGID(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       setgid — set-group-ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setgid(gid_t gid);

DESCRIPTION
       If the process has appropriate privileges, setgid() shall set the  real
       group ID, effective group ID, and the saved set-group-ID of the calling
       process to gid.

       If the process does not have appropriate privileges, but gid  is  equal
       to  the real group ID or the saved set-group-ID, setgid() shall set the
       effective group ID to gid; the real group  ID  and  saved  set-group-ID
       shall remain unchanged.

       The  setgid() function shall not affect the supplementary group list in
       any way.

       Any supplementary group IDs of the calling  process  shall  remain  un‐
       changed.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 shall be re‐
       turned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The setgid() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The value of the gid argument is invalid and is not supported by
              the implementation.

       EPERM  The  process  does  not have appropriate privileges and gid does
              not match the real group ID or the saved set-group-ID.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setuid().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       exec, getegid(), geteuid(), getgid(), getuid(),  setegid(),  seteuid(),
       setregid(), setreuid(), setuid()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       SETGID(3POSIX)
