NAME

shape_stdrul -
shapeTools RMS general version selection rules

DESCRIPTION

The shape
release management system requires a set of standard version
selection rules to be accessible project wide. These are
defined in the stdrules file, which is to be included
into the Shapefiles of any part of the system controlled by
the shapeTools release management system. Version selection
rules drive the binding of component names in the Shapefile
to specific versions during a build or release process (or
better: any process performed by invocation of shape(1) ).
Some functions of shape_RMS allow definition of the version
binding rule being active by defining the VERSIONS macro on
the command line. This may be set to any of the rule names
listed below.

If you want to
introduce new version selection rules for project wide use,
you may add them to the stdrules file. You should be very
careful, when altering this file. Do not remove any of the
rules defined in the original version of stdrules (as it
comes from the shapeTools distribution tape) because these
are essential for the release management system. When
altering one of the original selection rules, you should be
very concious of what you are doing, as you may affect the
operationality of shape RMS. For a description of the syntax
of rule definitions, see the shape(1) manual.

The standard
version selection rules are: 
most_recent

For each component select a
busy version if available, the most recent saved version
otherwise.

last_proposed

Use the last proposed version
of each component. This rule fails, if no proposed version
is available

last_released

Select versions from the last
generated release.

last_prereleased

Select versions from the last
generated prerelease.

recent_release

Select versions included in the
last release or prerelease, whichever is newer.

from_release

Select versions from a specific
release or prerelease. When using this rule the value of the
macro RELEASENAME has to be set to the name of the
desired (pre)release.

extern

Always select a busy version (a regular UNIX file). This
rule should be applied to all extern components that are not
under control of the shapeTools version control system.

FILES

$(SHAPELIBPATH)/stdrules

SEE ALSO

shape_RMS(1),
shape(1)