SHUTDOWN(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          SHUTDOWN(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       shutdown — shut down socket send and receive operations

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int shutdown(int socket, int how);

DESCRIPTION
       The shutdown() function shall cause all or part of a  full-duplex  con‐
       nection  on the socket associated with the file descriptor socket to be
       shut down.

       The shutdown() function takes the following arguments:

       socket      Specifies the file descriptor of the socket.

       how         Specifies the type of shutdown. The values are as follows:

                   SHUT_RD     Disables further receive operations.

                   SHUT_WR     Disables further send operations.

                   SHUT_RDWR   Disables further send and receive operations.

       The shutdown() function disables subsequent send and/or receive  opera‐
       tions on a socket, depending on the value of the how argument.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  shutdown() shall return 0; otherwise, -1
       shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The shutdown() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL The how argument is invalid.

       ENOTCONN
              The socket is not connected.

       ENOTSOCK
              The socket argument does not refer to a socket.

       The shutdown() function may fail if:

       ENOBUFS
              Insufficient resources were available in the system  to  perform
              the operation.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getsockopt(), pselect(), read(), recv(), recvfrom(), recvmsg(), send(),
       sendto(), setsockopt(), socket(), write()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_socket.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     SHUTDOWN(3POSIX)
