NAME

slapd.overlays
- overlays for slapd, the stand-alone LDAP daemon

DESCRIPTION

The
slapd(8) daemon can use a variety of different
overlays to alter or extend the normal behavior of a
database backend. Overlays may be compiled statically into
slapd, or when module support is enabled, they may be
dynamically loaded. Most of the overlays are only allowed to
be configured on individual databases, but some may also be
configured globally.

Configuration
options for each overlay are documented separately in the
corresponding slapo-(5) manual pages.

accesslog

Access Logging. This overlay
can record accesses to a given backend database on another
database.

auditlog

Audit Logging. This overlay
records changes on a given backend database to an LDIF log
file. By default it is not built.

autoca

Automatic Certificate Authority overlay. This overlay
can generate X.509 certificate/key pairs for entries in the
directory if slapd is linked to OpenSSL. By default it is
not built.

chain

Chaining. This overlay allows automatic referral chasing
when a referral would have been returned, either when
configured by the server or when requested by the
client. 

collect

Collective Attributes. This
overlay implements RFC 3671 collective attributes; these
attributes share common values over all the members of the
collection as inherited from an ancestor entry.

constraint

Constraint. This overlay
enforces a regular expression constraint on all values of
specified attributes. It is used to enforce a more rigorous
syntax when the underlying attribute syntax is too
general.

dds

Dynamic Directory Services. This overlay supports
dynamic objects, which have a limited life after which they
expire and are automatically deleted.

deref

Dereference Control. This overlay implements the draft
Dereference control. The overlay can be used with any
backend or globally for all backends.

dyngroup

Dynamic Group. This is a demo
overlay which extends the Compare operation to detect
members of a dynamic group. It has no effect on any other
operations.

dynlist

Dynamic List. This overlay
allows expansion of dynamic groups and more.

homedir

Home Directory Provisioning.
This overlay manages creation/deletion of home directories
for LDAP-based Unix accounts.

memberof

MemberOf. This overlay
maintains automatic reverse group membership values,
typically stored in an attribute called memberOf. This
overlay is deprecated and should be replaced with
dynlist.

otp

OATH One-Time Password module. This module allows
time-based one-time password, AKA
"authenticator-style", and HMAC-based one-time
password authentication to be used in conjunction with a
standard LDAP password for two factor authentication.

pbind

Proxybind. This overlay forwards simple bind requests on
a local database to a remote LDAP server.

pcache

Proxycache. This overlay allows caching of LDAP search
requests in a local database. It is most often used with the
slapd-ldap(5) or slapd-meta(5) backends.

ppolicy

Password Policy. This overlay
provides a variety of password control mechanisms, e.g.
password aging, password reuse and duplication control,
mandatory password resets, etc.

refint

Referential Integrity. This overlay can be used with a
backend database such as slapd-mdb(5) to maintain the
cohesiveness of a schema which utilizes reference
attributes. 

remoteauth

Remote Authentication. This
overlay delegates authentication requests to remote
directories.

retcode

Return Code. This overlay is
useful to test the behavior of clients when server-generated
erroneous and/or unusual responses occur.

rwm

Rewrite/remap. This overlay is experimental. It performs
basic DN/data rewrite and objectClass/attributeType
mapping. 

sssvlv

Server Side Sorting and Virtual List Views. This overlay
implements the RFC2891 server-side sorting control and
virtual list view controls, and replaces the RFC2696
paged-results implementation to ensure it works with the
sorting technique.

syncprov

Syncrepl Provider. This overlay
implements the provider-side support for syncrepl
replication, including persistent search functionality.

translucent

Translucent Proxy. This overlay
can be used with a backend database such as
slapd-mdb(5) to create a "translucent
proxy". Content of entries retrieved from a remote LDAP
server can be partially overridden by the database.

unique

Attribute Uniqueness. This overlay can be used with a
backend database such as slapd-mdb(5) to enforce the
uniqueness of some or all attributes within a subtree.

valsort

Value Sorting. This overlay can
be used to enforce a specific order for the values of an
attribute when it is returned in a search.

FILES

/etc/ldap/slapd.conf

default slapd configuration
file

/etc/ldap/slapd.d

default slapd configuration
directory

SEE ALSO

ldap(3),
slapo-accesslog(5), slapo-auditlog(5),
slapo-autoca(5), slapo-chain(5),
slapo-collect(5), slapo-constraint(5),
slapo-dds(5), slapo-deref(5),
slapo-dyngroup(5), slapo-dynlist(5),
slapo-memberof(5), slapo-pbind(5),
slapo-pcache(5), slapo-ppolicy(5),
slapo-refint(5), slapo-remoteauth(5),
slapo-retcode(5), slapo-rwm(5),
slapo-sssvlv(5), slapo-syncprov(5),
slapo-translucent(5), slapo-unique(5).
slapo-valsort(5). slapd-config(5),
slapd.conf(5), slapd.backends(5),
slapd(8). "OpenLDAP Administrator&rsquo;s
Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

OpenLDAP
Software is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP
Project http://www.openldap.org/&gt;. OpenLDAP
Software is derived from the University of Michigan LDAP
3.3 Release.