NAME

slapo-unique -
Attribute Uniqueness overlay to slapd

SYNOPSIS

/etc/ldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION

The Attribute
Uniqueness overlay can be used with a backend database such
as slapd-mdb(5) to enforce the uniqueness of some or
all attributes within a scope. This subtree defaults to all
objects within the subtree of the database for which the
Uniqueness overlay is configured.

Uniqueness is
enforced by searching the subtree to ensure that the values
of all attributes presented with an add,
modify or modrdn operation are unique within
the scope. For example, if uniqueness were enforced for the
uid attribute, the subtree would be searched for any
other records which also have a uid attribute
containing the same value. If any are found, the request is
rejected.

The search is
performed using the rootdn of the database, to avoid issues
with ACLs preventing the overlay from seeing all of the
relevant data. As such, the database must have a rootdn
configured.

CONFIGURATION

These
slapd.conf options apply to the Attribute Uniqueness
overlay. They should appear after the overlay
directive. 
unique_uri 

Configure the base, attributes,
scope, and filter for uniqueness checking. Multiple URIs may
be specified within a domain, allowing complex selections of
objects. Multiple unique_uri statements or
olcUniqueURI attribute values will create independent
domains, each with their own independent lists of URIs and
ignore/strict settings.

Keywords
strict, ignore, and serialize have to
be enclosed in quotes (") together with the URI when
using deprecated slapd.conf configurations.

The LDAP URI
syntax is a subset of RFC-4516, and takes the
form:

ldap:///[base
dn]?[attributes...]?scope[?filter]

The base
dn defaults to that of the back-end database. Specified
base dns must be within the subtree of the back-end
database.

If no
attributes are specified, the URI applies to all
non-operational attributes.

The
scope component is effectively mandatory, because
LDAP URIs default to base scope, which is not valid
for uniqueness, because groups of one object are always
unique. Scopes of sub (for subtree) and one
for one-level are valid.

The
filter component causes the domain to apply
uniqueness constraints only to matching objects. e.g.
ldap:///?cn?sub?(sn=e*) would require unique
cn attributes for all objects in the subtree of the
back-end database whose sn starts with an e.

It is possible
to assert uniqueness upon all non-operational attributes
except those listed by prepending the keyword ignore
If not configured, all non-operational (e.g., system)
attributes must be unique. Note that the attributes
list of an ignore URI should generally contain the
objectClass, dc, ou and o
attributes, as these will generally not be unique, nor are
they operational attributes.

It is possible
to set strict checking for the uniqueness domain by
prepending the keyword strict. By default, uniqueness
is not enforced for null values. Enabling strict mode
extends the concept of uniqueness to include null values,
such that only one attribute within a subtree will be
allowed to have a null value. Strictness applies to all URIs
within a uniqueness domain, but some domains may be strict
while others are not.

It is possible
to enforce strict serialization of modifications by
prepending the keyword serialize. By default, no
serialization is performed, so multiple modifications
occurring nearly simultaneously may see incomplete
uniqueness results. Using serialize will force
individual write operations to fully complete before
allowing any others to proceed, to ensure that each
operation&rsquo;s uniqueness checks are consistent.

It is not
possible to set both URIs and legacy slapo-unique
configuration parameters simultaneously. In general, the
legacy configuration options control pieces of a single
unfiltered subtree domain. 
unique_base 

This legacy configuration
parameter should be converted to the base dn
component of the above unique_uri style of
parameter.

unique_ignore

This legacy configuration
parameter should be converted to a unique_uri
parameter with ignore keyword as described above.

unique_attributes

This legacy configuration
parameter should be converted to a unique_uri
parameter, as described above.

unique_strict

This legacy configuration
parameter should be converted to a strict keyword
prepended to a unique_uri parameter, as described
above.

CAVEATS

unique_uri
cannot be used with the old-style of configuration, and vice
versa. unique_uri can implement everything the older
system can do, however.

Typical
attributes for the ignore ldap:///... URIs are
intentionally not hardcoded into the overlay to allow for
maximum flexibility in meeting site-specific
requirements.

Replication and
operations with the relax control are allowed to
bypass this enforcement. It is therefore important that all
servers accepting writes have this overlay configured in
order to maintain uniqueness in a replicated DIT.

FILES

/etc/ldap/slapd.conf

default slapd configuration
file

SEE ALSO

slapd.conf(5),
slapd-config(5).