Spottopgm User Manual(1)    General Commands Manual   Spottopgm User Manual(1)

NAME
       spottopgm - convert SPOT satellite images to a PGM image

SYNOPSIS
       spottopgm [-1|-2|-3] [Firstcol Firstline Lastcol Lastline] inputfile

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       spottopgm converts the named inputfile to PGM format, defaulting to the
       first color and the whole SPOT image unless you specify otherwise  with
       the options.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), spottopgm recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       -1

       -2

       -3     Extract the given color from the SPOT image.  The colors are in‐
              frared, visible light, and ultraviolet, although  I  don't  know
              which  corresponds  to  which number.  If the image is in color,
              spottopgm announces this on Standard Error.  The  default  color
              is 1.

PARAMETERS
       Firstcol Firstline Lastcol Lastline
              Extract  the specified rectangle from the SPOT image.  Most SPOT
              images are 3000 lines long and 3000 or more columns wide. Unfor‐
              tunately,  the  SPOT  format  only  gives  the width and not the
              length.  The width is printed on standard  error.   The  default
              rectangle is the width of the input image by 3000 lines.

LIMITATIONS
       spottopgm  doesn't  determine  the length of the input file; this would
       involve two passes over the input file.  It defaults to 3000 lines  in‐
       stead.

       spottopgm  could  extract  a three-color image (as a PPM), but I didn't
       feel like making the program more complicated than it is now.  Besides,
       there  is no one-to-one correspondence between red, green, blue and in‐
       frared, visible and ultraviolet.

       I've had only a limited number of SPOT images to play with, and  there‐
       fore wouldn't guarantee that this will work on any other images.

AUTHOR
       Warren Toomey wkt@csadfa.cs.adfa.oz.au

SEE ALSO
       pgm(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/spottopgm.html

netpbm documentation             22 July 2004         Spottopgm User Manual(1)
