TCGETPGRP(3POSIX)          POSIX Programmer's Manual         TCGETPGRP(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       tcgetpgrp — get the foreground process group ID

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t tcgetpgrp(int fildes);

DESCRIPTION
       The tcgetpgrp() function shall return the value of the process group ID
       of the foreground process group associated with the terminal.

       If  there  is  no  foreground process group, tcgetpgrp() shall return a
       value greater than 1 that does not match the process group  ID  of  any
       existing process group.

       The  tcgetpgrp() function is allowed from a process that is a member of
       a background process group; however,  the  information  may  be  subse‐
       quently  changed  by a process that is a member of a foreground process
       group.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, tcgetpgrp() shall return the value  of  the
       process  group  ID of the foreground process associated with the termi‐
       nal. Otherwise, -1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the  er‐
       ror.

ERRORS
       The tcgetpgrp() function shall fail if:

       EBADF  The fildes argument is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOTTY The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the
              file is not the controlling terminal.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       setsid(), setpgid(), tcsetpgrp()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_types.h>, <unistd.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                    TCGETPGRP(3POSIX)
