Tgatoppm User Manual(1)     General Commands Manual    Tgatoppm User Manual(1)

NAME
       tgatoppm - convert TrueVision Targa file to a PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       tgatoppm       [--alphaout={alpha-filename,-}]      [--headerdump] tga-
       filename

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       tgatoppm reads a TrueVision Targa file as input and produces a PPM  im-
       age as output.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common Options <index.html#commonoptions> ), tgatoppm  recognizes  the
       following command line options:

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

       --alphaout=alpha-filename
              tgatoppm   creates a PGM image containing the transparency chan-
              nel values in the input image.  If the input image doesn't  con-
              tain  a  transparency  channel, the alpha-filename file contains
              all zero (transparent) transparency values.  If you don't  spec-
              ify --alphaout, tgatoppm does not generate an alpha file, and if
              the input image has a transparency channel, tgatoppm simply dis-
              cards it.

              If  you specify - as the filename, tgatoppm writes the transpar-
              ency output to Standard Output and discards the image.

              See pamcomp(1) for one way to use the transparency output file.

       --headerdump
              Causes tgatoppm to dump information from the TGA header to Stan-
              dard Error.

SEE ALSO
       ppmtotga(1), pamcomp(1), ppm(1)

AUTHOR
       Partially based on tga2rast, version 1.0, by Ian J. MacPhedran.

       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This  manual  page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman' from HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/tgatoppm.html

netpbm documentation             02 April 2000         Tgatoppm User Manual(1)
