TOUPPER(3POSIX)            POSIX Programmer's Manual           TOUPPER(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       toupper, toupper_l — transliterate lowercase characters to uppercase

SYNOPSIS
       #include <ctype.h>

       int toupper(int c);
       int toupper_l(int c, locale_t locale);

DESCRIPTION
       For toupper(): The functionality described on this  reference  page  is
       aligned  with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements
       described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  toupper()  and  toupper_l() functions have as a domain a type int,
       the value of which is representable as an unsigned char or the value of
       EOF. If the argument has any other value, the behavior is undefined.

       If the argument of toupper() or toupper_l() represents a lowercase let‐
       ter, and there exists a corresponding uppercase letter  as  defined  by
       character  type information in the current locale or in the locale rep‐
       resented by locale, respectively (category LC_CTYPE), the result  shall
       be the corresponding uppercase letter.

       All other arguments in the domain are returned unchanged.

       The  behavior is undefined if the locale argument to toupper_l() is the
       special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale  object
       handle.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, toupper() and toupper_l() shall return the
       uppercase letter corresponding to the argument passed; otherwise,  they
       shall return the argument unchanged.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       setlocale(), uselocale()

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of  POSIX.1‐2017,  Chapter  7,  Locale,
       <ctype.h>, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                      TOUPPER(3POSIX)
