UNAME(3POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             UNAME(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uname — get the name of the current system

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/utsname.h>

       int uname(struct utsname *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The uname() function shall store information  identifying  the  current
       system in the structure pointed to by name.

       The  uname()  function  uses  the utsname structure defined in <sys/ut‐
       sname.h>.

       The uname() function shall return a string naming the current system in
       the  character  array  sysname.   Similarly, nodename shall contain the
       name of this node within an implementation-defined communications  net‐
       work. The arrays release and version shall further identify the operat‐
       ing system. The array machine shall contain a name that identifies  the
       hardware that the system is running on.

       The format of each member is implementation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  a  non-negative value shall be returned.
       Otherwise, -1 shall be returned and errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The inclusion of the nodename member in this structure does  not  imply
       that  it  is  sufficient  information for interfacing to communications
       networks.

RATIONALE
       The values of the structure members are not constrained to have any re‐
       lation to the version of this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 implemented in the
       operating system. An application should instead depend  on  _POSIX_VER‐
       SION and related constants defined in <unistd.h>.

       This volume of POSIX.1‐2017 does not define the sizes of the members of
       the structure and permits them to be of different sizes, although  most
       implementations  define  them all to be the same size: eight bytes plus
       one byte for the string terminator.  That  size  for  nodename  is  not
       enough for use with many networks.

       The  uname()  function  originated in System III, System V, and related
       implementations, and it does not exist in Version 7  or  4.3  BSD.  The
       values  it  returns  are set at system compile time in those historical
       implementations.

       4.3 BSD has gethostname() and gethostid(), which return a symbolic name
       and  a numeric value, respectively. There are related sethostname() and
       sethostid() functions that are used to set the  values  the  other  two
       functions  return. The former functions are included in this specifica‐
       tion, the latter are not.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <sys_utsname.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        UNAME(3POSIX)
