UNSETENV(3POSIX)           POSIX Programmer's Manual          UNSETENV(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       unsetenv — remove an environment variable

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int unsetenv(const char *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The unsetenv() function shall remove an environment variable  from  the
       environment  of  the  calling  process.  The  name argument points to a
       string, which is the name of the variable to be removed. The named  ar‐
       gument  shall  not contain an '=' character. If the named variable does
       not exist in the current environment,  the  environment  shall  be  un‐
       changed and the function is considered to have completed successfully.

       The unsetenv() function shall update the list of pointers to which env‐
       iron points.

       The unsetenv() function need not be thread-safe.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, zero shall be returned. Otherwise, -1 shall
       be returned, errno set to indicate the error, and the environment shall
       be unchanged.

ERRORS
       The unsetenv() function shall fail if:

       EINVAL The name argument points to an empty  string,  or  points  to  a
              string containing an '=' character.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       Refer to the RATIONALE section in setenv().

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       getenv(), setenv()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <stdlib.h>, <sys_types.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                     UNSETENV(3POSIX)
