UNSQUASHFS(1)                    User Commands                   UNSQUASHFS(1)

NAME
       unsquashfs - tool to uncompress, extract and list squashfs filesystems

SYNOPSIS
       unsquashfs [OPTIONS] FILESYSTEM [files to extract or exclude (with -ex-
       cludes) or cat (with -cat )]

DESCRIPTION
       Squashfs is a highly compressed read-only  filesystem  for  Linux.   It
       uses  either  gzip/xz/lzo/lz4/zstd  compression to compress both files,
       inodes and directories.  Inodes in the system are very  small  and  all
       blocks  are  packed to minimise data overhead. Block sizes greater than
       4K are supported up to a maximum of 1Mbytes (default block size 128K).

       Squashfs is intended for general read-only filesystem use, for archival
       use  (i.e.  in  cases  where  a  .tar.gz file may be used), and in con-
       strained block device/memory systems (e.g. embedded systems) where  low
       overhead is needed.

OPTIONS
       -v, -version
              print version, licence and copyright information.

       -cat   cat the files on the command line to stdout.

       -d PATHNAME, -dest PATHNAME
              extract to PATHNAME, default "squashfs-root".

       -max LEVELS, -max-depth LEVELS
              descend  at  most LEVELS of directories when extracting or list-
              ing.

       -excludes
              treat files on command line as exclude files.

       -ex, -exclude-list
              list of files to be excluded, terminated with ; e.g. file1 file2
              ;.

       -follow, -follow-symlinks
              follow  symlinks  in  extract  files, and add all files/symlinks
              needed to resolve extract file. Implies -no-wildcards.

       -missing, -missing-symlinks
              Unsquashfs will abort if any symlink can't be resolved in  -fol-
              low-symlinks.

       -q, -quiet
              no verbose output.

       -n, -no-progress
              don't display the progress bar.

       -no, -no-xattrs
              don't extract xattrs in file system.

       -x, -xattrs
              extract xattrs in file system (default).

       -u, -user-xattrs
              only extract user xattrs in file system. Enables extracting xat-
              trs.

       -p NUMBER, -processors NUMBER
              use NUMBER processors.  By default will use the number  of  pro-
              cessors available.

       -i, -info
              print files as they are extracted.

       -li, -linfo
              print  files as they are extracted with file attributes (like ls
              -l output).

       -l, -ls
              list filesystem, but don't extract files.

       -ll, -lls
              list filesystem with file attributes (like ls  -l  output),  but
              don't extract files.

       -lln, -llnumeric
              same as -lls but with numeric uids and gids.

       -lc    list  filesystem  concisely, displaying only files and empty di-
              rectories.  Don't extract files.

       -llc   list filesystem concisely with file attributes, displaying  only
              files and empty directories. Don't extract files.

       -o BYTES, -offset BYTES
              skip  BYTES at start of FILESYSTEM.  Optionally a suffix of K, M
              or G can be given to specify Kbytes, Mbytes  or  Gbytes  respec-
              tively (default 0 bytes).

       -f, -force
              if file already exists then overwrite.

       -ig, -ignore-errors
              treat errors writing files to output as non-fatal.

       -st, -strict-errors
              treat all errors as fatal.

       -no-exit, -no-exit-code
              don't set exit code (to nonzero) on non-fatal errors.

       -s, -stat
              display filesystem superblock information.

       -UTC   use UTC rather than local time zone when displaying time.

       -mkfs-time
              display  filesystem superblock time, which is an unsigned 32-bit
              int  representing  the  time  in   seconds   since   the   epoch
              (1970-01-01).

       -fstime
              synonym for -mkfs-time.

       -extract-file FILE
              list of directories or files to extract. One per line.

       -exclude-file FILE
              list of directories or files to exclude. One per line.

       -pf FILE
              output  a  pseudo file equivalent of the input Squashfs filesys-
              tem.

       -pseudo-file FILE
              alternative name for -pf.

       -e, -ef EXTRACT FILE
              synonym for -extract-file.

       -exc, -excf EXCLUDE FILE
              synonym for -exclude-file.

       -da SIZE, -data-queue SIZE
              set data queue to SIZE Mbytes.  Default 256 Mbytes.

       -fr SIZE, -frag-queue SIZE
              set fragment queue to SIZE Mbytes.  Default 256 Mbytes.

       -no-wild, -no-wildcards
              do not use wildcard matching in extract names.

       -r, -regex
              treat extract names as POSIX regular expressions rather than use
              the default shell wildcard expansion (globbing).

       -L     synonym for -follow-symlinks.

       -h, -help
              output this options text to stdout.

DECOMPRESSORS AVAILABLE
       gzip, lzo, lz4, xz, zstd, lzma

EXIT STATUS
       0      The filesystem listed or extracted OK.

       1      FATAL  errors  occurred, e.g. filesystem corruption, I/O errors.
              Unsquashfs did not continue and aborted.

       2      Non-fatal errors occurred, e.g. no support for XATTRs,  Symbolic
              links in output filesystem or couldn't write permissions to out-
              put filesystem. Unsquashfs continued and did not abort.

       See -ignore-errors, -strict-errors and -no-exit-code  options  for  how
       they affect the exit status.

EXAMPLES
       unsquashfs IMAGE.SQFS
              Extract IMAGE.SQFS to "squashfs-root" in the current working di-
              rectory.

       unsquashfs -d output IMAGE.SQFS
              Extract IMAGE.SQFS to "output" in the current working directory.

       unsquashfs -d . IMAGE.SQFS
              Extract IMAGE.SQFS to current working directory.

       unsquashfs -linfo IMAGE.SQFS
              Output a listing of IMAGE.SQFS with file attributes  to  stdout,
              while extracting the filesystem to "squashfs-root".

       unsquashfs -lls IMAGE.SQFS
              Output  a  listing of IMAGE.SQFS with file attributes to stdout,
              but do not extract the filesystem.

       unsquashfs IMAGE.SQFS fs/squashfs
              Extract only the "fs/squashfs" directory.

       unsquashfs IMAGE.SQFS "[Tt]est/example*"
              Extract all files beginning with "example" inside top level  di-
              rectories called "Test" or "test".

       unsquashfs -excludes IMAGE.SQFS "test/*data*.gz"
              This  will  extract  everything  except  for  files  that  match
              *data*.gz in the test directory.  The -excludes option tells Un-
              squashfs  to  exclude  the files on the command line rather than
              extract them.

       unsquashfs -ex "test/*data*.gz" ; IMAGE.SQFS test
              This uses both extract and exclude options, to  tell  Unsquashfs
              to  only  extract the "test" directory, and to exclude any files
              within it that match *data*.gz.

       unsquashfs -dest output -max-depth 2 IMAGE.SQFS
              Extract only the top two levels of IMAGE.SQFS to "output" direc-
              tory.

       unsquashfs -max-depth 2 IMAGE.SQFS "test/*.gz"
              Only extract the gzipped files in the test directory.

       unsquashfs -llc -max-depth 2 IMAGE.SQFS "test/*.gz"
              Output  a  listing of the gzipped files in the test directory to
              stdout, but do not extract them.

       Note: when passing wildcarded  names  to  Unsquashfs,  they  should  be
       quoted  (as  in  the  above examples), to ensure that they are not pro-
       cessed by the shell.

AUTHOR
       Written by Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2022 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under  the  terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or  (at  your  option)  any
       later version.

       This  program  is  distributed  in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY  WARRANTY;  without  even  the  implied  warranty  of  MER-
       CHANTABILITY  or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
       Public License for more details.

SEE ALSO
       mksquashfs(1), sqfstar(1), sqfscat(1)

       The README for the Squash-tools 4.5.1 release, describing the new  fea-
       tures              can             be             read             here
       https://github.com/plougher/squashfs-tools/blob/master/README-4.5.1

       The    Squashfs-tools    USAGE    guide    can     be     read     here
       https://github.com/plougher/squashfs-tools/blob/master/USAGE

unsquashfs version 4.5.1          March 2022                     UNSQUASHFS(1)
