USELOCALE(3POSIX)          POSIX Programmer's Manual         USELOCALE(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uselocale — use locale in current thread

SYNOPSIS
       #include <locale.h>

       locale_t uselocale(locale_t newloc);

DESCRIPTION
       The uselocale() function shall set or query the current locale for  the
       calling thread.

       The value for the newloc argument shall be one of the following:

        1. A value returned by the newlocale() or duplocale() functions

        2. The special locale object descriptor LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE

        3. (locale_t)0

       If  the newloc argument is (locale_t)0, the current locale shall not be
       changed; this value can be used to query the current locale setting. If
       the  newloc  argument  is LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE, any thread-local locale for
       the calling thread shall be uninstalled; the thread shall again use the
       global  locale  as the current locale, and changes to the global locale
       shall affect the thread. Otherwise, the locale  represented  by  newloc
       shall  be  installed as a thread-local locale to be used as the current
       locale for the calling thread.

       Once the uselocale() function has been called to install a thread-local
       locale, the behavior of every interface using data from the current lo‐
       cale shall be affected for the calling thread. The current  locale  for
       other threads shall remain unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful  completion,  the  uselocale() function shall return a
       handle for the thread-local locale that was in use as the  current  lo‐
       cale  for the calling thread on entry to the function, or LC_GLOBAL_LO‐
       CALE if no thread-local locale was in use. Otherwise, uselocale() shall
       return (locale_t)0 and set errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       The uselocale() function may fail if:

       EINVAL newloc is not a valid locale object and is not (locale_t)0.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Unlike  the setlocale() function, the uselocale() function does not al‐
       low replacing some locale categories only. Applications  that  need  to
       install a locale which differs only in a few categories must use newlo‐
       cale() to change a locale object equivalent to the currently  used  lo‐
       cale and install it.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       duplocale(), freelocale(), newlocale(), setlocale()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <locale.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions  of  this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
       from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --  Por‐
       table  Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifi‐
       cations Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the  Institute  of
       Electrical  and  Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The  Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
       is the referee document. The original Standard can be  obtained  online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any  typographical  or  formatting  errors that appear in this page are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files  to  man page format. To report such errors, see https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                    USELOCALE(3POSIX)
