WCSLEN(3POSIX)             POSIX Programmer's Manual            WCSLEN(3POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       wcslen, wcsnlen — get length of a fixed-sized wide-character string

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wchar.h>

       size_t wcslen(const wchar_t *ws);
       size_t wcsnlen(const wchar_t *ws, size_t maxlen);

DESCRIPTION
       For wcslen(): The functionality described on  this  reference  page  is
       aligned  with the ISO C standard. Any conflict between the requirements
       described here and the ISO C standard is unintentional. This volume  of
       POSIX.1‐2017 defers to the ISO C standard.

       The  wcslen() function shall compute the number of wide-character codes
       in the wide-character string to which ws points, not including the ter‐
       minating null wide-character code.

       The  wcsnlen() function shall compute the smaller of the number of wide
       characters in the array to which ws points, not including any terminat‐
       ing  null  wide-character code, and the value of maxlen.  The wcsnlen()
       function shall never examine more than the first maxlen  characters  of
       the wide-character array pointed to by ws.

RETURN VALUE
       The wcslen() function shall return the length of ws.

       The  wcsnlen() function shall return the number of wide characters pre‐
       ceding the first null wide-character code in  the  array  to  which  ws
       points,  if  ws  contains  a  null wide-character code within the first
       maxlen wide characters; otherwise, it shall return maxlen.

       No return values are reserved to indicate an error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       None.

RATIONALE
       None.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       strlen()

       The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, <wchar.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                       WCSLEN(3POSIX)
