Winicontopam User Manual(1) General Commands ManualWinicontopam User Manual(1)

NAME
       winicontopam  - convert a Microsoft Windows icon file into a Netpbm PAM
       file

SYNOPSIS
       winicontopam  [-image=index  |   -allimages]   [-andmasks]   [-verbose]
       [icon_file]

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
       may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may use
       either  white  space  or  equals  signs  between an option name and its
       value.

DESCRIPTION
       This program is part of Netpbm(1).

       winicontopam reads a Microsoft Windows icon file and converts it to one
       or more RGB_ALPHA Netpbm PAM images.

       There  are  two  kinds of transparency information a a Windows icon can
       have: and mask and graded transparency map.  The and mask is older  and
       indicates  for each pixel whether it is fully opaque or fully transpar‐
       ent.  The graded transparency map can indicate translucent values  too.
       The  graded transparency map is present in an icon that uses PNG encod‐
       ing or uses BMP encoding with 32 bits per pixel.

       The transparency plane in the PAM output of winicontopam comes from
         the graded transparency map if it exists and the and mask otherwise.

       An icon may actually have both forms of transparency information.   See
       -andmasks.

       The output goes to Standard Output.

       The  output is a multi-image PAM file.  If you want a separate file for
       each image, use pamsplit(1).

OPTIONS
       In addition to the options common to all programs  based  on  libnetpbm
       (most notably -quiet, see
        Common  Options  ⟨index.html#commonoptions⟩ ), winicontopam recognizes
       the following command line options:

       -allimages
              Convert all images in the input.

              You may not specify this together with -image.

              By default, winicontopam converts only the  one  "best  quality"
              image (largest, then most bits per pixel).

       -image=index
              Convert image number index (starting with zero).

              You may not specify this together with -allimages.

              By  default,  winicontopam  converts  the  "best  quality" image
              (largest, then most bits per pixel).

       -andmasks
              If the image to be extracted contains both  graded  transparency
              data  and  an  AND  mask, produce five-channel Netpbm PAM images
              with the AND mask as the fifth plane.  An  image  that  formally
              has  graded  transparency  data,  but  it  indicates nothing but
              opaque pixels is considered  not  to  have  graded  transparency
              data, so -andmasks would have no effect on it.

       -verbose
              Print more messages

SEE ALSO
       •

              pamtowinicon(1)

       •

              winicontoppm(1)

       •

              pamsplit(1)

       •

              pam(1)

       •

              winicon(1)

       For   information   on   the   PNG  format,  see  http://schaik.com/png
       ⟨http://schaik.com/png⟩ .

HISTORY
       winicontopam was new in Netpbm 10.63 (June 2013).  It  obsoleted  wini‐
       contoppm  by  providing  more  function and conforming better to Netpbm
       conventions.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2013 by Ludolf Holzheid.

       Translated to Netpbm coding style by Bryan Henderson.

DOCUMENT SOURCE
       This manual page was generated by the Netpbm tool 'makeman'  from  HTML
       source.  The master documentation is at

              http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/winicontopam.html

netpbm documentation            29 August 2020     Winicontopam User Manual(1)
