WRITE(1POSIX)              POSIX Programmer's Manual             WRITE(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       write — write to another user

SYNOPSIS
       write user_name [terminal]

DESCRIPTION
       The write utility shall read lines from the standard  input  and  write
       them  to  the  terminal  of  the specified user. When first invoked, it
       shall write the message:

           Message from sender-login-id (sending-terminal) [date]...

       to user_name.  When it has successfully completed the  connection,  the
       sender's  terminal  shall  be  alerted  twice to indicate that what the
       sender is typing is being written to the recipient's terminal.

       If the recipient wants to reply, this can be accomplished by typing:

           write sender-login-id [sending-terminal]

       upon receipt of the initial message. Whenever a line of input as delim‐
       ited  by an NL, EOF, or EOL special character (see the Base Definitions
       volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface) is  ac‐
       cumulated  while in canonical input mode, the accumulated data shall be
       written on the other user's terminal. Characters shall be processed  as
       follows:

        *  Typing <alert> shall write the <alert> character to the recipient's
           terminal.

        *  Typing the erase and kill characters shall affect the sender's ter‐
           minal  in the manner described by the termios interface in the Base
           Definitions volume of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter  11,  General  Terminal
           Interface.

        *  Typing the interrupt or end-of-file characters shall cause write to
           write an appropriate message ("EOT\n" in the POSIX locale)  to  the
           recipient's terminal and exit.

        *  Typing  characters  from  LC_CTYPE  classifications  print or space
           shall cause those characters to be sent to the  recipient's  termi‐
           nal.

        *  When and only when the stty iexten local mode is enabled, the exis‐
           tence and processing of additional special control  characters  and
           multi-byte or single-byte functions is implementation-defined.

        *  Typing  other  non-printable characters shall cause implementation-
           defined sequences of printable characters to be written to the  re‐
           cipient's terminal.

       To  write to a user who is logged in more than once, the terminal argu‐
       ment can be used to indicate which terminal to write to; otherwise, the
       recipient's  terminal  is  selected in an implementation-defined manner
       and an informational message is written to the sender's  standard  out‐
       put, indicating which terminal was chosen.

       Permission  to  be  a  recipient  of  a  write message can be denied or
       granted by use of the mesg utility. However,  a  user's  privilege  may
       further  constrain  the  domain of accessibility of other users' termi‐
       nals. The write utility shall fail  when  the  user  lacks  appropriate
       privileges to perform the requested action.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       user_name Login  name  of the person to whom the message shall be writ‐
                 ten. The application shall ensure that this operand is of the
                 form returned by the who utility.

       terminal  Terminal  identification  in  the same format provided by the
                 who utility.

STDIN
       Lines to be copied to the recipient's terminal are read  from  standard
       input.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The  following  environment  variables  shall  affect  the execution of
       write:

       LANG      Provide a default value for  the  internationalization  vari‐
                 ables  that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions vol‐
                 ume of POSIX.1‐2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization  Vari‐
                 ables  for  the  precedence of internationalization variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override  the  values  of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed  to  multi-byte  characters  in  arguments  and input
                 files). If the recipient's locale does not  use  an  LC_CTYPE
                 equivalent to the sender's, the results are undefined.

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error
                 and informative messages written to standard output.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       If an interrupt signal is received, write shall  write  an  appropriate
       message  on the recipient's terminal and exit with a status of zero. It
       shall take the standard action for all other signals.

STDOUT
       An informational message shall be written to standard output if  a  re‐
       cipient is logged in more than once.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       The recipient's terminal is used for output.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    The  addressed user is not logged on or the addressed user denies
             permission.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The talk utility is considered by some users to be a more usable  util‐
       ity on full-screen terminals.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       The  write utility was included in this volume of POSIX.1‐2017 since it
       can be implemented on all terminal types. The standard developers  con‐
       sidered the talk utility, which cannot be implemented on certain termi‐
       nals, to be a ``better'' communications interface. Both of  these  pro‐
       grams  are  in widespread use on historical implementations. Therefore,
       the standard developers decided that both utilities  should  be  speci‐
       fied.

       The format of the terminal name is unspecified, but the descriptions of
       ps, talk, who, and write require that they all use or accept  the  same
       format.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       mesg, talk, who

       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1‐2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables, Chapter 11, General Terminal Interface

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por‐
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi‐
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                        WRITE(1POSIX)