NAME

dumpcap - Dump
network traffic

SYNOPSIS

dumpcap
[ -a|--autostop  ] ...
[ -b|--ring-buffer  ] ...
[ -B|--buffer-size  ]
[ -c  ]
[ -C  ]
[ -d ]
[ -D|--list-interfaces ]
[ -f  ]
[ -g ]
[ -i|--interface |rpcap://;:/|TCP@:|- ]
[ -I|--monitor-mode ]
[ -k ,[],[],[] ]
[ -L|--list-data-link-types ]
[ -M ] [ -n ]
[ -N  ]
[ -p|--no-promiscuous-mode ]
[ --ifdescr  ]
[ --ifname  ]
[ -P ] [ -q ]
[ -s|--snapshot-length  ]
[ -S ] [ -t ]
[ --temp-dir  ]
[ -w  ]
[ -y|--linktype  ]
[ --capture-comment  ]
[ --list-time-stamp-types ]
[ --time-stamp-type  ]
[ --update-interval  ]

dumpcap
-h|--help

dumpcap
-v|--version

DESCRIPTION

Dumpcap
is a network traffic dump tool. It lets you capture packet
data from a live network and write the packets to a file.
Dumpcap's default capture file format is
pcapng format. When the -P option is
specified, the output file is written in the pcap
format.

Without any
options set it will use the libpcap, Npcap, or WinPcap
library to capture traffic from the first available network
interface and writes the received raw packet data, along
with the packets' time stamps into a capture file.

If the
-w option is not specified, Dumpcap writes to
a newly created capture file with a randomly chosen name. If
the -w option is specified, Dumpcap writes to
the file specified by that option.

Packet
capturing is performed with the pcap library. The capture
filter syntax follows the rules of the pcap library.

OPTIONS

-a|--autostop

Specify a
criterion that specifies when Dumpcap is to stop
writing to a capture file. The criterion is of the form
test:value, where test is one of:

duration:value
Stop writing to a capture file after value seconds
have elapsed. Floating point values (e.g. 0.5) are
allowed.

files:value
Stop writing to capture files after value number of
files were written.

filesize:value
Stop writing to a capture file after it reaches a size of
value kB. If this option is used together with the -b
option, dumpcap will stop writing to the current capture
file and switch to the next one if filesize is reached. Note
that the filesize is limited to a maximum value of 2
GiB.

packets:value
Stop writing to a capture file after value packets
have been written. Acts the same as -c .

-b|--ring-buffer

Cause
Dumpcap to run in "multiple files" mode. In
"multiple files" mode, Dumpcap will write
to several capture files. When the first capture file fills
up, Dumpcap will switch writing to the next file and
so on.

The created
filenames are based on the filename given with the -w
option, the number of the file and on the creation date and
time, e.g. outfile_00001_20240714120117.pcapng,
outfile_00002_20240714120523.pcapng, ...

With the
files option it&rsquo;s also possible to form a
"ring buffer". This will fill up new files until
the number of files specified, at which point Dumpcap
will discard the data in the first file and start writing to
that file and so on. If the files option is not set,
new files filled up until one of the capture stop conditions
match (or until the disk is full).

The criterion
is of the form key:value, where key is one
of:

duration:value
switch to the next file after value seconds have
elapsed, even if the current file is not completely filled
up. Floating point values (e.g. 0.5) are allowed.

files:value
begin again with the first file after value number of
files were written (form a ring buffer). This value must be
less than 100000. Caution should be used when using large
numbers of files: some filesystems do not handle many files
in a single directory well. The files criterion
requires either duration, interval or
filesize to be specified to control when to go to the
next file. It should be noted that each -b parameter
takes exactly one criterion; to specify two criterion, each
must be preceded by the -b option.

filesize:value
switch to the next file after it reaches a size of
value kB. Note that the filesize is limited to a
maximum value of 2 GiB.

interval:value
switch to the next file when the time is an exact multiple
of value seconds. For example, use 3600 to switch to
a new file every hour on the hour.

packets:value
switch to the next file after it contains value
packets.

printname:filename
print the name of the most recently written file to
filename after the file is closed. filename
can be stdout or - for standard output, or stderr for
standard error.

Example: -b
filesize:1000 -b files:5 results in a ring buffer of
five files of size one megabyte each.

-B|--buffer-size

Set capture
buffer size (in MiB, default is 2 MiB). This is used by the
capture driver to buffer packet data until that data can be
written to disk. If you encounter packet drops while
capturing, try to increase this size. Note that, while
Dumpcap attempts to set the buffer size to 2 MiB by
default, and can be told to set it to a larger value, the
system or interface on which you&rsquo;re capturing might
silently limit the capture buffer size to a lower value or
raise it to a higher value.

This is
available on UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS,
\*BSD, Solaris, and AIX, with libpcap 1.0.0 or later, and on
Windows. It is not available on UNIX-compatible systems with
earlier versions of libpcap.

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, it sets the default capture buffer
size. If used after an -i option, it sets the capture
buffer size for the interface specified by the last
-i option occurring before this option. If the
capture buffer size is not set specifically, the default
capture buffer size is used instead.

-c 

Set the maximum number of
packets to read when capturing live data. Acts the same as
-a packets:.

-C 

Limit the amount of memory in
bytes used for storing captured packets in memory while
processing it. If used in combination with the -N
option, both limits will apply. Setting this limit will
enable the usage of the separate thread per interface.

-d

Dump the code generated for the
capture filter in a human-readable form, and exit.

-D|--list-interfaces

Print a list of the interfaces
on which Dumpcap can capture, and exit. For each
network interface, a number and an interface name, possibly
followed by a text description of the interface, is printed.
The interface name or the number can be supplied to the
-i flag to specify an interface on which to capture.
The number can be useful on Windows systems, where the
interfaces have long names that usually contain a GUID.

-f 

Set the capture
filter expression.

The entire
filter expression must be specified as a single argument
(which means that if it contains spaces, it must be
quoted).

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, it sets the default capture filter
expression. If used after an -i option, it sets the
capture filter expression for the interface specified by the
last -i option occurring before this option. If the
capture filter expression is not set specifically, the
default capture filter expression is used if provided.

-g

This option causes the output
file(s) to be created with group-read permission (meaning
that the output file(s) can be read by other members of the
calling user&rsquo;s group).

-h|--help

Print the version number and
options and exit.

-i|--interface
|rpcap://;:/|TCP@:|-

Set the name of
the network interface or pipe to use for live packet
capture.

Network
interface names should match one of the names listed in
"tshark -D" (described above); a number, as
reported by "dumpcap -D", can also be
used.

If no interface
is specified, Dumpcap searches the list of
interfaces, choosing the first non-loopback interface if
there are any non-loopback interfaces, and choosing the
first loopback interface if there are no non-loopback
interfaces. If there are no interfaces at all,
Dumpcap reports an error and doesn&rsquo;t start the
capture.

Pipe names
should be either the name of a FIFO (named pipe) or
"-" to read data from the standard input. On
Windows systems, pipe names must be of the form
"\\.\pipe\pipename". Data read from pipes
must be in standard pcapng or pcap format. Pcapng data must
have the same endianness as the capturing host.

"TCP@:"
causes Dumpcap to attempt to connect to the specified
port on the specified host and read pcapng or pcap data.

This option can
occur multiple times. When capturing from multiple
interfaces, the capture file will be saved in pcapng format,
even if -P is specified.

--ifdescr>

Use description as the
description in the capture file for the interface or pipe
specified before it with -i.

--ifname>

Use name as the name in
the capture file for the interface or pipe specified before
it with -i.

-I|--monitor-mode

Put the
interface in "monitor mode"; this is supported
only on IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi interfaces, and supported only on
some operating systems.

Note that in
monitor mode the adapter might disassociate from the network
with which it&rsquo;s associated, so that you will not be
able to use any wireless networks with that adapter. This
could prevent accessing files on a network server, or
resolving host names or network addresses, if you are
capturing in monitor mode and are not connected to another
network with another adapter.

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, it enables the monitor mode for all
interfaces. If used after an -i option, it enables
the monitor mode for the interface specified by the last
-i option occurring before this option.

-k
,[],[],[>

Set the channel
on the interface; this is supported only on IEEE 802.11
Wi-Fi interfaces, and supported only on some operating
systems.

freq is
the frequency of the channel. type is the type of the
channel, for 802.11n and 802.11ac. The values for
type are

NOHT

Used for
non-802.11n/non-802.1ac channels

HT20

20 MHz channel

HT40-

40 MHz primary channel and a
lower secondary channel

HT40+

40 MHz primary channel and a
higher secondary channel

HT80

80 MHz channel, with
centerfreq1 as its center frequency

VHT80+80

Two 80 MHz channels combined,
with centerfreq1 and centerfreq2 as the center
frequencies of the two channels

VHT160

160 MHz channel, with
centerfreq1 as its center frequency

-L|--list-data-link-types

List the data link types
supported by the interface and exit. The reported link types
can be used for the -y option.

-M

When used with
-D, -L, -S or
--list-time-stamp-types print machine-readable
output. The machine-readable output is intended to be read
by Wireshark and TShark; its format is subject
to change from release to release.

-n

Save files as pcapng. This is
the default.

-N 

Limit the
number of packets used for storing captured packets in
memory while processing it. If used in combination with the
-C option, both limits will apply. Setting this limit
will enable the usage of the separate thread per
interface.

-p|--no-promiscuous-mode

Don&rsquo;t
put the interface into promiscuous mode. Note that the
interface might be in promiscuous mode for some other
reason; hence, -p cannot be used to ensure that the
only traffic that is captured is traffic sent to or from the
machine on which Dumpcap is running, broadcast
traffic, and multicast traffic to addresses received by that
machine.

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, no interface will be put into the
promiscuous mode. If used after an -i option, the
interface specified by the last -i option occurring
before this option will not be put into the promiscuous
mode.

-P

Save files as pcap instead of
the default pcapng. In situations that require pcapng, such
as capturing from multiple interfaces, this option will be
overridden.

-q

When capturing
packets, don&rsquo;t display the continuous count of packets
captured that is normally shown when saving a capture to a
file; instead, just display, at the end of the capture, a
count of packets captured. On systems that support the
SIGINFO signal, such as various BSDs, you can cause the
current count to be displayed by typing your
"status" character (typically control-T, although
it might be set to "disabled" by default on at
least some BSDs, so you&rsquo;d have to explicitly set it to
use it).

-s|--snapshot-length

Set the default
snapshot length to use when capturing live data. No more
than snaplen bytes of each network packet will be
read into memory, or saved to disk. A value of 0 specifies a
snapshot length of 262144, so that the full packet is
captured; this is the default.

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, it sets the default snapshot length.
If used after an -i option, it sets the snapshot
length for the interface specified by the last -i
option occurring before this option. If the snapshot length
is not set specifically, the default snapshot length is used
if provided.

-S

Print statistics for each
interface once every second.

-t

Use a separate thread per
interface.

--temp-dir

Specifies the
directory into which temporary files (including capture
files) are to be written. The default behavior on
UNIX-compatible systems, such as Linux, macOS, \*BSD,
Solaris, and AIX, is to use the environment variable
$TMPDIR if set, and the system default, typically
/tmp, if it is not. On Windows, the %TEMP%
environment variable is used, which typically defaults to
%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Temp.

-v|--version

Print the full version
information and exit.

-w

Write raw packet data to
outfile. Use "-" for stdout.

-y|--linktype

Set the data
link type to use while capturing packets. The values
reported by -L are the values that can be used.

This option can
occur multiple times. If used before the first occurrence of
the -i option, it sets the default capture link type.
If used after an -i option, it sets the capture link
type for the interface specified by the last -i
option occurring before this option. If the capture link
type is not set specifically, the default capture link type
is used if provided.

--capture-comment

Add a capture
comment to the output file, if supported by the output file
format.

This option is
only available if we output the captured packets to a single
file.

This option may
be specified multiple times. Note that Wireshark currently
only displays the first comment of a capture file.

--list-time-stamp-types

List time stamp types supported
for the interface. If no time stamp type can be set, no time
stamp types are listed.

--time-stamp-type

Change the interface&rsquo;s
timestamp method.

--update-interval

Set the length of time in
milliseconds between new packet reports during a capture.
Also sets the granularity of file duration conditions. The
default value is 100ms.

DIAGNOSTIC OPTIONS

--log-level

Set the active log level.
Supported levels in lowest to highest order are
"noisy", "debug", "info",
"message", "warning",
"critical", and "error". Messages at
each level and higher will be printed, for example
"warning" prints "warning",
"critical", and "error" messages and
"noisy" prints all messages. Levels are case
insensitive.

--log-fatal

Abort the program if any
messages are logged at the specified level or higher. For
example, "warning" aborts on any
"warning", "critical", or
"error" messages.

--log-domains

Only print messages for the
specified log domains, e.g. "GUI,Epan,sshdump".
List of domains must be comma-separated. Can be negated with
"!" as the first character (inverts the
match).

--log-debug

Force the specified domains to
log at the "debug" level. List of domains must be
comma-separated. Can be negated with "!" as the
first character (inverts the match).

--log-noisy

Force the specified domains to
log at the "noisy" level. List of domains must be
comma-separated. Can be negated with "!" as the
first character (inverts the match).

--log-fatal-domains

Abort the program if any
messages are logged for the specified log domains. List of
domains must be comma-separated.

--log-file

Write log messages and stderr
output to the specified file.

CAPTURE FILTER SYNTAX

See the manual
page of pcap-filter(7) or, if that doesn&rsquo;t exist,
tcpdump(8), or, if that doesn&rsquo;t exist,
https://gitlab.com/wireshark/wireshark/-/wikis/CaptureFilters&gt;.

SEE ALSO

wireshark(1),
tshark(1), editcap(1), mergecap(1), capinfos(1), pcap(3),
pcap-filter(7) or tcpdump(8)

NOTES

This is the
manual page for Dumpcap 4.2.6. Dumpcap is part
of the Wireshark distribution. The latest version of
Wireshark can be found at
https://www.wireshark.org&gt;.

HTML versions
of the Wireshark project man pages are available at 
https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages&gt;.

AUTHORS

Dumpcap
is derived from the Wireshark capturing engine code;
see the list of authors in the Wireshark man page for
a list of authors of that code.