NAME

hostname -
Local hostname configuration file

SYNOPSIS

/etc/hostname

DESCRIPTION

The
/etc/hostname file configures the name of the local system.
Unless overridden as described in the next section,
systemd(1) will set this hostname during boot using
the sethostname(2) system call.

The file should
contain a single newline-terminated hostname string.
Comments (lines starting with a "#") are ignored.
The hostname should be composed of up to 64 7-bit ASCII
lower-case alphanumeric characters or hyphens forming a
valid DNS domain name. It is recommended that this name
contains only a single label, i.e. without any dots. Invalid
characters will be filtered out in an attempt to make the
name valid, but obviously it is recommended to use a valid
name and not rely on this filtering.

You may use
hostnamectl(1) to change the value of this file
during runtime from the command line. Use
systemd-firstboot(1) to initialize it on mounted (but
not booted) system images.

HOSTNAME SEMANTICS

systemd(1)
and the associated tools will obtain the hostname in the
following ways:

&bull; If the
kernel command line parameter systemd.hostname=
specifies a valid hostname, systemd(1) will use it to
set the hostname during early boot, see
kernel-command-line(7),

&bull;
Otherwise, the "static" hostname specified by
/etc/hostname as described above will be used.

&bull;
Otherwise, a transient hostname may be set during runtime,
for example based on information in a DHCP lease, see
systemd-hostnamed.service(8). Both
NetworkManager
[1]
and systemd-networkd.service(8)
allow this. Note that systemd-hostnamed.service(8)
gives higher priority to the static hostname, so the
transient hostname will only be used if the static hostname
is not configured.

&bull;
Otherwise, a fallback hostname configured at compilation
time will be used ("localhost").

Effectively,
the static hostname has higher priority than a transient
hostname, which has higher priority than the fallback
hostname. Transient hostnames are equivalent, so setting a
new transient hostname causes the previous transient
hostname to be forgotten. The hostname specified on the
kernel command line is like a transient hostname, with the
exception that it has higher priority when the machine
boots. Also note that those are the semantics implemented by
systemd tools, but other programs may also set the
hostname.

HISTORY

The
simple configuration file format of /etc/hostname originates
from Debian GNU/Linux.

SEE ALSO

systemd(1),
sethostname(2), hostname(1),
hostname(7), machine-id(5),
machine-info(5), hostnamectl(1),
systemd-hostnamed.service(8),
systemd-firstboot(1)

NOTES

1. 

NetworkManager 

https://developer.gnome.org/NetworkManager/stable/