NAME

ipnodes &minus;
local database associating names of nodes with IP
addresses

SYNOPSIS

/etc/inet/ipnodes

DESCRIPTION

The
ipnodes file is a local database that associates the
names of nodes with their Internet Protocol (IP)
addresses. IP addresses can be either an IPv4 or an
IPv6 address. The ipnodes file can be used in
conjunction with, or instead of, other ipnodes databases,
including the Domain Name System (DNS), the NIS
ipnodes map, and the NIS+ ipnodes table. Programs
use library interfaces to access information in the
ipnodes file.

The
ipnodes file has one entry for each IP address
of each node. If a node has more than one IP address,
it will have one entry for each, on consecutive lines. The
format of each line is:

IP-address official-node-name nicknames...

Items are
separated by any number of  and/or
 characters. The first item on a line is
the node&rsquo;s IP address. The second entry is the
node&rsquo;s official name. Subsequent entries on the same
line are alternative names for the same machine, or
"nicknames." Nicknames are optional.

For a node with
more than one IP address, consecutive entries for
these addresses may contain the same or differing nicknames.
Different nicknames are useful for assigning distinct names
to different addresses.

A call to
getipnodebyname(3SOCKET) returns a hostent
structure containing 
the union of all addresses and nicknames from each line
containing a matching official name or nickname.

A
&rsquo;#&rsquo; indicates the beginning of a comment;
characters up to the end of the line are not interpreted by
routines that search the file.

Network
addresses are written in one of two ways:

&bull;

The conventional "decimal dot" notation and
interpreted using the inet_addr routine from the Internet
address manipulation library, inet(3SOCKET).

&bull;

The IP Version 6 protocol [IPV6], defined in RFC
1884 and interpreted using the inet_pton()
routine from the Internet address manipulation library. See
inet(3SOCKET). 

These
interfaces supports node names as defined in Internet RFC
952 which states:

A
"name" (Net, Host, Gateway, or Domain name) is a
text string up to 24 characters drawn from the alphabet
(A-Z), digits (0-9), minus sign (-), and period (.). Note
that periods are only allowed when they serve to delimit
components of "domain style names". (See RFC
921, "Domain Name System Implementation
Schedule," for background). 
No blank or space characters are permitted as part of a
name. No distinction is made between upper and lower case.
The first character must be an alpha character. The last
character must not be a minus sign or period.

Although the
interface accepts node names longer than 24 characters for
the node portion (exclusive of the domain component),
choosing names for nodes that adhere to the 24 character
restriction will insure maximum interoperability on the
Internet.

A node which
serves as a GATEWAY should have "-GATEWAY"
or "-GW" as part of its name. Nodes which
do not serve as Internet gateways should not use
"-GATEWAY" and "-GW" as
part of their names. A node that is a TAC should have
"-TAC" as the last part of its node name,
if it is a DoD node. Single character names or nicknames are
not allowed.

RFC 952
has been modified by RFC 1123 to relax the
restriction on the first character being a digit.

EXAMPLES

Example 1: A
Typical Line from the ipnodes File

The following
is a typical line from the ipnodes file:

 2::56:a00:20ff:fe7b:b667        foo             # John Smith

SEE ALSO

in.named(1M),
getipnodebyname(3SOCKET), inet(3SOCKET),
nsswitch.conf(4), resolv.conf(4),
hosts(4)

Braden, B.,
editor, RFC 1123, Requirements for Internet Hosts -
Application and Support, Network Working Group, October,
1989.

Harrenstien,
K., Stahl, M., and Feinler, E., RFC 952, DOD INTERNET
HOST TABLE SPECIFICATION, Network Working Group, October
1985.

Hinden, R., and
Deering, S., editors, RFC 1884, IP Version 6 Addressing
Architecture, Network Working Group, December, 1995.

Postel, Jon,
RFC 921, Domain Name System Implementation Schedule
&mdash; Revised, Network Working Group, October
1984.

NOTES

IPv4 addresses
can be defined in the ipnodes file or in the
hosts file. See hosts(4). The ipnodes
file will be searched for IPv4 addresses when using the
getipnodebyname(3SOCKET) API. If no matching IPv4
addresses are found in the ipnodes file, then the
hosts file will be searched. To prevent delays in
name resolution and to keep /etc/inet/ipnodes and
/etc/inet/hosts synchronized, IPv4 addresses defined
in the hosts file should be copied to the
ipnodes file.