NAME

jbigtopnm -
JBIG to PNM image file converter

SYNOPSIS

jbigtopnm
[-xmax] [-ymax] [-binary]
[-diagnose] [-plane] [input-file
[output-file]]

Minimum unique
abbreviation of option is acceptable. You may use double
hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options. You may
use white space in place of the equals sign to separate an
option name from its value.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

jbigtopnm
reads a JBIG bi-level image entity (BIE) from a file or
standard input, decompresses it, and outputs a PBM or PGM
file. If the input has one plane, or you choose just one
plane of it, the output is PBM. Otherwise, the output is
PGM.

JBIG is a
highly effective lossless compression algorithm for bi-level
images (one bit per pixel), which is particularly suitable
for scanned document pages.

A JBIG encoded
image can be stored in several resolutions in one or several
BIEs. All resolution layers except the lowest one are stored
efficiently as differences to the next lower resolution
layer. You can use options -x and -y to stop
the decompression at a specified maximal output image size.
The input file can consist of several concatenated BIEs
which contain different increasing resolution layers of the
same image.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
jbigtopnm recognizes the following command line
options:

Before Netpbm
10.85 (December 2018), only single-character single-hyphen
abbreviations of the options are accepted. 
-xmax number

Decode only up to the largest
resolution layer which is still not more than number
pixels wide. If no such resolution layer exists, then use
the smallest one available.

-ymax number

Decode only up to the largest
resolution layer which is still not more than number
pixels high. If no such resolution layer exists, then use
the smallest one available. You can also use options
-x and -y together which selects the largest
layer that satisfies both limits.

-binary

Use binary values instead of
Gray code words in order to decode pixel values from
multiple bitplanes. This option has effect only if the input
has more than one bitplane and you don&rsquo;t select just
one of those bitplanes. Note that the decoder has to be used
in the same mode as the encoder and cannot determine from
the BIE, whether Gray or binary code words were used by the
encoder.

-diagnose

Diagnose a BIE. With this
option, jbigtopnm only prints a summary of the header
information found in the input file and then exits.

-plane number

If the input contains multiple
bitplanes, then extract only the specified single plane as a
PBM file. The first plane has number 0.

STANDARDS

This program
implements the JBIG image coding algorithm as specified in
ISO/IEC 11544:1993 and ITU-T T.82(1993).

AUTHOR

jbigtopnm
is based on the JBIG library by Markus Kuhn, part of his
http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/jbigkit/">JBIG-KIT
package . The jbgtopbm program is part of the
JBIG-KIT package.

jbigtopnm
is part of the Netpbm package of graphics tools.

SEE ALSO

pnm(1),
pnmtojbig(1)

LICENSE

There was at
one time concern about the need for patent licenses to use
jbigtopnm, but any relevant patents expired by
2012.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/jbigtopnm.html