NAME

pamsplit -
split a multi-image Netpbm file into single-image files

SYNOPSIS

pamsplit

[netpbmfile

[
output_file_pattern]]

[-padname=n]

Minimum unique
abbreviation of option is acceptable. You may use double
hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options. You may
use white space in place of the equals sign to separate an
option name from its value.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

pamsplit
reads a PNM or PAM stream as input. It copies each image in
the input into a separate file, in the same format.

netpbmfile
is the file name of the input file, or - to indicate
Standard Input. The default is Standard Input.

output_file_pattern
tells how to name the output files. It is the file name of
the output file, except that the first occurrence of
"%d" in it is replaced by the image sequence
number in unpadded ASCII decimal, with the sequence starting
at 0. If there is no "%d" in the pattern,
pamsplit fails.

The default
output file pattern is "image%d".

The
-padname option specifies how many characters you
want the image sequence number in the output file name
padded with zeroes. pamsplit adds leading zeroes to
the image sequence number to get up to at least that number
of characters. This is just the number of characters in the
sequence number part of the name. For example, pamsplit -
outputfile%d.ppm -padname=3 would yield output filenames
outputfile000.ppm, outputfile001.ppm, etc.

Note that to do
the reverse operation (combining multiple single-image
Netpbm files into a multi-image one), there is no special
Netpbm program. Just use cat.

If you just
want to find out basic information about the images in a
stream, you can use pamfile on the stream.

To extract
images from a stream and generate a single stream containing
them, use pampick.

To run a
program on each image in a stream without the hassle of
temporary files, use pamexec.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
pamsplit recognizes the following command line
option: 
-padname=n

Specify the width (i.e. number
of digits) of the image sequence number field in the
filenames of the output files. The image sequence will be
padded with leading zeroes to achieve the stated width.

The default is
no padding (equivalent to -padname=0).

The
-padname option was new in Netpbm 10.23 (July 2004).
Before that, there was never any padding.

SEE ALSO

pamfile(1),
pampick(1), pamexec(1), pnm(1),
pam(1), cat man page

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamsplit.html