NAME

pamtotga -
convert a Netpbm image to a TrueVision Targa file

SYNOPSIS

pamtotga
[-mono|-cmap|-cmap16|-rgb] [-norle]
[-name=name [-verhose]
[pamfile]

All options can
be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix. You may use
two hyphens instead of one to designate an option. You may
use either white space or equals signs between an option
name and its value.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

pamtotga
reads a PBM, PGM, PPM, or PAM image as input and produces a
TrueVision Targa file as output. The PAM image may be either
a BLACKANDWHITE, GRAYSCALE, RGB, or RGB_ALPHA image.

To create a TGA
image with transparency (i.e. with a transparency mask), use
RGB_ALPHA PAM input. Some Netpbm programs that generate
images with transparency masks generate them in that format.
For another way to create the proper input stream, see
pamstack(1).

It is unclear
that anything except pamtotga knows about TGAs with
transparency. The history behind this feature of
pamtotga is not clear. The format pamtotga
produces is simply the same as an ordinary RGB TGA image
except with a 4th plane added for transparency. The
PixelSize field of the TGA header specifies 32 bits instead
of 24 and the raster has an extra byte added to each pixel,
at the tail end. The value of that byte has the same meaning
as in a PAM image with maxval 255.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
pamtotga recognizes the following command line
options:

-cmap

Make output Targa file use a color map (palette) to make
the output smaller.

Each color in
the color map is 3 bytes, 8 bits each of red, green, and
blue, unless the input is black and white or grayscale, in
which case each color in the palette is represented by one
byte.

Input must
contain no more than 256 distinct colors and must not
contain transparency information.

(The
transparency limitation is not a limitation of the format,
but of pamtotga. Implementing a color map that
contains transparency information is harder to
implement).

-cmap16

Same as -cmap, except a
color map entry for full color input is 5 bits each of red,
green, and blue, stored as two bytes (16 bits).

Restrictions
are the same as for -cmap.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.85 (December 2018).

-mono

Make output Targa file of type 8 bit monochrome. Input
must be PBM or PGM or a PAM with BLACKANDWHITE or GRAYSCALE
tuple type. See -cmap.

You may specify
at most one of -mono, -cmap, and -rgb.
If you specify neither, the default image type is the most
highly constrained compatible type is used, where monochrome
is more constrained than colormapped which is in turn more
constrained than unmapped.

-rgb

Make output Targa file of type
24 bit unmapped color. See -cmap.

-norle

Do not use run-length encoding in the output Targa file.
Run-length encoded files are smaller, but Some Targa readers
can&rsquo;t read run-length encoded files.

-name=name

This is the value for the image
ID stated in the header of the TGA output file.
pamtotga truncates it as necessary to meet TGA
standards.

By default,
pamtotga uses the input file name argument, up to the
first period (or the whole thing if there is no period). It
truncates it as necessary to meet TGA standards. If you
specify (or default to) Standard Input, pamtotga
omits the image ID from the TGA header.

-verbose

This causes pamtotga to
issues messages about the conversion process.

SEE ALSO

tgatoppm(1),
pnmquant(1), pamstack(1), pam(1)
pnm(1)

HISTORY

This program
was called ppmtotga until Netpbm 10.6 (July 2002).
That was always a misnomer, though, because a PPM class
program would not be able to tell the difference between PGM
and PPM input (it would all look like PPM), and thus could
not choose the output Targa image type based on the type of
the input. Netpbm 10.6 also added the ability to handle a
transparency channel, so it became a PAM class program.

In Netpbm 10.15
(April 2003), the program became the first in the Netpbm
package to recognize a transparency channel in a PAM. It
recognized tuple type "RGBA". But when this kind
of PAM image was later added to the PAM specification, it
was specified with tuple type "RGB_ALPHA". So in
Netpbm 10.26 (January 2005), pamtotga changed to
recognize "RGB_ALPHA" instead of
"RGBA".

AUTHOR

Copyright (C)
1989, 1991 by Mark Shand and Jef Poskanzer.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pamtotga.html