NAME

pnmhisteq -
histogram equalize a PNM image

SYNOPSIS

pnmhisteq

[-gray]

[-noblack]
[-nowhite]

[-rmap
pgmfile]

[-wmap
pgmfile]

[-verbose]

[pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

pnmhisteq
increases the contrast of a PGM or PPM image through the
technique of "histogram equalization."[1]

pnmhisteq
computes a histogram of the luminosity of the pixels in the
image. It then calculates a mapping between each luminosity
and a new luminosity such that it spreads out intensity
levels around histogram peaks and compresses them at
troughs. I.e. it moves pixels around in the histogram so as
to make it flat. It applies that mapping to the input image
to produce the output image. The effect of this is that the
image has equal numbers of pixels at each possible intensity
level, which means it uses the available levels of intensity
more efficiently and thereby has more visible detail.

Mathematically,
the luminosity mapping is this: Assume the pixels are sorted
by luminosity into B buckets numbered from 0 (lowest
luminosity) to B-1. N[i] is the number of
pixels in bucket i. T is the total number of
pixels (sum of N[i] over all i). W is
the luminosity of white.

pnmhisteq
replaces an input pixel whose luminosity falls into bucket
j with one whose luminosity is:

j 
--- 
\ 
> (N[i] / T) * W 
/ 
--- 
i=0

Considering a
grayscale image for simplicity, this means that pixels in
the most luminous bucket become white. Pixels in the 10th
per centile of luminosity become 10% of white.

pnmhisteq
maps a single luminosity in the input to a single luminosity
in the output. That means if pixels A and B both have
luminosity .2 in the input, and pixel A has luminosity .4 in
the output, pixel B also has luminosity .4 in the output.
And since the luminosities in the input are not continuous,
the luminosities in the output aren&rsquo;t either and
pnmhisteq doesn&rsquo;t meet the ideal of having
exactly the same number of pixels of each luminosity in the
output.

If you&rsquo;re
processing a related set of images, for example frames of an
animation, it&rsquo;s generally best to apply the same
luminosity mapping to every frame, since otherwise
you&rsquo;ll get distracting frame-to-frame changes in the
brightness of objects. pnmhisteq&rsquo;s -wmap
option allows you to save, as a PGM image, the luminosity
map it computes from an image. The -rmap option
causes pnmisteq to use such an image as its
luminosity map.

So you can run
pnmhisteq with -wmap on a composite you
created with pamcat of the images you intend to
process. Then, you can run pnmisteq with -rmap
on each of the individual images, using the luminosity map
you generated from the composite.

Use
pnmhistmap to see the result. Run a color image
through ppmtopgm first so that you see a histogram of
the luminosity instead of histograms of the three color
components. It should generally show a flat histogram. But
because of the quantization effects described above, you
might see high bars interleaved with low bars, with the
local average being flat. To see local averages, use the
-width option of pnmhistmap.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
pnmhisteq recognizes the following command line
options:

You can
abbreviate any option to its shortest unique prefix.

-gray

When processing a color image, only gray pixels (those
with identical red, green, and blue values) are included in
the histogram and modified in the output image. This is a
special purpose option intended for images where the actual
data are gray scale, with color annotations you don&rsquo;t
want modified. Weather satellite images that show continent
outlines in color are best processed using this option. The
option has no effect when the input is a graymap.

-noblack

Do not include black pixels in
the equalization. The black pixels in the output are exactly
the black pixels in the input and the number of black pixels
does not affect the color of any other pixels.

Sometimes,
black isn&rsquo;t as much a color as a background or
annotation for the real colors, so you want to treat it
specially this way. Think of a picture of stars, which is
nearly all black, but with lots of stars of different
brightness. You want to change the brightnesses of the stars
to maximize contrast between them, but if you considered the
blackness to be significant, all the stars would end up
close to full white.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.70 (March 2015).

-nowhite

Same as
-noblack, but for the white pixels.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.70 (March 2015).

-rmap mapfile

Process the image using the
luminosity map specified by the PGM file mapfile.

The PGM image,
usually created by an earlier run of pnmhisteq with
the -wmap option, contains a single row with number
of columns equal to the maxval (greatest intensity value) of
the image plus one. Each pixel in the image is transformed
by looking up its luminosity in the corresponding column in
the map file (column number = luminosity) and changing it to
the value given by that column.

-wmap mapfile

Creates a PGM file
mapfile, containing the luminosity map computed from
the histogram of the input image. This map file can be read
on subsequent runs of pnmhisteq with the -rmap
option, allowing a group of images to be processed with an
identical map.

-verbose

Prints the histogram and
luminosity map on Standard Error.

LIMITATIONS

Histogram
equalization is effective for increasing the visible detail
in scientific imagery and in some continuous-tone pictures.
It is often too drastic, however, for scanned halftone
images, where it does an excellent job of making halftone
artifacts apparent. You might want to experiment with
pnmnorm and pnmgamma for more subtle contrast
enhancement.

The luminosity
map file supplied by the -rmap option must have the
same maxval as the input image. This is always the case when
the map file was created by the -wmap option of
pnmhisteq. If this restriction causes a problem,
simply adjust the maxval of the map with pamdepth to
agree with the input image.

If the input is
a PBM file (on which histogram equalization is an identity
operation), the only effect of passing the file through
pnmhisteq will be the passage of time.

SEE ALSO

pnmnorm(1),
pamcat(1), pamdepth(1), pnmgamma(1),
pnm(1),

[1]

Russ, John C. The Image Processing Handbook. Boca Raton:
CRC Press, 1992. Pages 105-110.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmhisteq.html