NAME

pnmquantall -
run Pnmquant on a bunch of files all at once, so they share
a common colormap

SYNOPSIS

pnmquantall

[-ext
extension] ncolors netpbm_file...

Note that the
usual syntax rules for Netpbm programs don&rsquo;t
apply to this program. For example, you can&rsquo;t
abbreviate -ext and you can&rsquo;t put it anywhere on the
line you want.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

pnmquantall
takes a bunch of Netpbm image files as input, chooses
ncolors colors to best represent all of the images,
maps the existing colors to the new ones, and overwrites
the input files with the new quantized versions.

If you
don&rsquo;t want to overwrite your input files, use the
-ext option. The output files are then named the same
as the input files, plus a period and the extension text you
specify.

The purpose is
this: Let&rsquo;s say you&rsquo;ve got a dozen PPMs that you
want to display on the screen all at the same time. Your
screen can only display 256 different colors, but the PPMs
have a total of a thousand or so different colors. For a
single image you solve this problem with pnmquant;
pnmquantall solves it for multiple images.

Note that
another approach to this problem is to pre-select a set of
colors and then use pnmremap to separately quantize
each PPM to that set.)

This is a
rather simple program that runs pnmcolormap and
pnmremap. If you are considering using it in a
program of any sophistication, you should probably just run
those programs directly. Even if you are typing it, you may
want to do the steps manually because it gives you access to
the various options of pnmcolormap and
pnmremap for doing the quantization differently.

OPTIONS

pnmquantall
recognizes the following command line option: 
-ext extension

Specify an extension for the
output files. By default the input files are
overwritten.

pnmquantall
does not recognize the options common to all programs based
on libnetpbm (See  Common
Options .) However, the -version option
works.

SEE ALSO

pnmquant(1),
pnmremap(1), pnmcolormap(1), pnm(1)

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmquantall.html