NAME

ppmglobe -
generate strips to glue onto a sphere

SYNOPSIS

ppmglobe
[-background=colorname] [-closeok]
stripcount [filename]

Minimum unique
abbreviation of option is acceptable. You may use double
hyphens instead of single hyphen to denote options. You may
use white space in place of the equals sign to separate an
option name from its value.

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

ppmglobe
does the inverse of a cylindrical projection of a sphere.
Starting with a cylindrical projection, it produces an image
you can cut up and glue onto a sphere to obtain the
spherical image of which it is the cylindrical
projection.

What is a
cylindrical projection? Imagine a map of the Earth on flat
paper. There are lots of different ways cartographers show
the three dimensional information in such a two dimensional
map. The cylindrical projection is one. You could make a
cylindrical projection by tracing as follows: wrap a
rectangular sheet of paper around the globe, touching the
globe at the Equator. For each point of color on the globe,
run a horizontal line from the axis of the globe through
that point and out to the paper. Mark the same color on the
paper there. Lay the paper out flat and you have a
cylindrical projection.

Here&rsquo;s
where ppmglobe comes in: Pass the image on that paper
through ppmglobe and what comes out the other side
looks something like this:

Example of
map of the earth run through ppmglobe

You could cut
out the strips and glue it onto a sphere and you&rsquo;d
have a copy of the original globe.

Note that
cylindrical projections are not what you normally see as
maps of the Earth. You&rsquo;re more likely to see a
Mercator projection. In the Mercator projection, the Earth
gets stretched North-South as well as East-West as you move
away from the Equator. It was invented for use in
navigation, because you can draw straight compass courses on
it, but is used today because it is pretty.

You can find
maps of planets at
http://maps.jpl.nasa.gov">maps.jpl.nasa.gov
.

PARAMETERS

stripcount
is the number of strips ppmglobe is to generate in
the output. More strips makes it easier to fit onto a sphere
(less stretching, tearing, and crumpling of paper), but
makes you do more cutting out of the strips.

The strips are
all the same width. If the number of columns of pixels in
the image doesn&rsquo;t evenly divide by the number of
strips, ppmglobe truncates the image on the right to
create nothing but whole strips. In the pathological case
that there are fewer columns of pixels than the number of
strips you asked for, ppmglobe fails.

Before Netpbm
10.32 (February 2006), instead of truncating the image on
the right, ppmglobe produces a fractional strip on
the right.

filename
is the name of the input file. If you don&rsquo;t specify
this, ppmglobe reads the image from Standard
Input.

OPTIONS

In addition to
the options common to all programs based on libnetpbm (most
notably -quiet, see
 Common Options ),
ppmglobe recognizes the following command line
options: 
-background=colorname

This specifies the color that
goes between the strips.

Specify the
color (color) as described for the
argument of the
pnm_parsecolor() library routine .

The default is
black.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.31 (December 2005). Before that, the
background is always black.

-closeok

This means it is OK if the
background isn&rsquo;t exactly the color you specify.
Sometimes, it is impossible to represent a named color
exactly because of the precision (i.e. maxval) of the
image&rsquo;s color space. If you specify -closeok
and ppmglobe can&rsquo;t represent the color you name
exactly, it will use instead the closest color to it that is
possible. If you don&rsquo;t specify closeok,
ppmglobe fails in that situation.

This option was
new in Netpbm 10.31 (December 2005).

SEE ALSO

ppm(1)
pnmmercator(1)

HISTORY

ppmglobe
was new in Netpbm 10.16 (June 2003).

It is derived
from Max Gensthaler&rsquo;s ppmglobemap.

AUTHORS

Max
Gensthaler wrote a program he called ppmglobemap
in June 2003 and suggested it for inclusion in Netpbm. Bryan
Henderson modified the code slightly and included it in
Netpbm as ppmglobe.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmglobe.html