NAME

ppmtogif -
replaced by pamtogif

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

ppmtogif
was replaced in Netpbm 10.37 (December 2006) by
pamtogif(1).

pamtogif
is mostly backward compatible with ppmtogif.

One way
pamtogif is not backward compatible with
ppmtogif is that to specify a transparency (alpha)
mask with ppmtogif, you supply the transparency as a
separate pseudo-PGM image and use the -alpha option,
whereas with pamtogif, you supply an input image that
has the transparency integrated into it, and there is no
-alpha option.

ppmtogif
still exists as a separate program for backward
compatibility, but it runs pamtogif to do the
essential work. The compatibility ppmtogif interprets
an -alpha option by reading the transparency image
and combining it with the input image, then feeding
pamtogif the combined image it expects. Other than
that, the compatibility ppmtogif just passes input
and options directly to pamtogif.

You should not
make any new use of ppmtogif and if you modify an
existing use, you should upgrade to pamtogif. But
note that if you write a program that might have to be used
with old Netpbm, ppmtogif is the only way to do
that.

Unless you use
the -alpha option, you can simply change the name of
the program. If you use -alpha, here is how to
upgrade:

$ ppmtogif
-alpha=myalpha.pgm myinput.ppm >myoutput.gif

becomes

$ pamstack
-tupletype=RGB_ALPHA myinput.ppm myalpha.pgm | \ 
pamtogif >myoutput.gif

Original Ppmtogif

If you are
using Netpbm before 10.37, pamtogif doesn&rsquo;t
exist, so you use ppmtogif. You can use the
pamtogif manual for ppmtogif, with the
following exceptions.

The current
documentation of pamtogif documents all versions of
that program. Use the information for Version 10.37
only.

ppmtogif
before Netpbm 10.31 does not accept PAM input at all.

ppmtogif
does not accept PAM input with transparency information in
it. Instead, ppmtogif has an -alpha
option.

The syntax of
the option is -alpha=pgmfile. ppmtogif
treats the contents of the named PGM file the same as
pamtogif treats the alpha plane of a PAM. The PGM
image must have the same dimensions as the input file. But
unlike the PAM case, the alpha image need not have the same
maxval as the input. ppmtogif interprets the alpha
file using the alpha file&rsquo;s maxval.

You cannot
specify both -transparent and -alpha.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppmtogif.html