NAME

atmsigd.conf -
configuration file for the ATM signaling demon

SYNOPSIS

/etc/atmsigd.conf

DESCRIPTION

atmsigd.conf
contains configuration data for atmsigd.
atmsigd reads atmsigd.conf after parsing the
command line options, before connecting to the ATM
network.

Configuration
parameters are arranged in functional groups. In order to
set a parameter, the name of the group, the name of the
parameter, and the parameter value(s) have to be specified,
e.g.

sig level
debug

decreases the
logging threshold for messages related to signaling to the
debug level. The following options are recognized:

debug dump path

Specifies the directory to
which atmsigd will write status and trace dumps. If
tracing is not yet enabled, the trace size is automatically
set to a (small) default value.

debug level level

Sets the default debug level to
level. level can be any of debug,
info, warn, error, and fatal.
Only messages with the same or a higher priority than the
debug level are printed. Note that the command-line option
-d generates even more output (e.g. hexdumps of all
packets passing between atmsigd and the network) than
debug level debug.

debug log path

Specifies the file to which
atmsigd writes logging messages. When using the
special file name syslog, messages are send to the
system logger instead. Log messages are written to standard
output if no log file is specified. Writing to standard
output can also be explicitly requested by using the special
file name stderr.

debug trace [number]

Enables tracing and optionally
sets the number of entries that should be kept in the trace
buffer. A (small) default is used if the number is
omitted.

io level level

Sets the debug level for
IO-related messages to level.

io max_rate rate

Sets the rate to signal if an
application requests the "maximum". See qos(7) for
the syntax to use for expressing the rate. The default
maximum rate is 353207 cells/second (OC3). (Note that the
value of max_rate does not constrain the rates an
application can explicitly request.)

io qos qos

Configures the signaling VC to
use the specified QOS (see qos(7) for the syntax). By
default, UBR at link speed is used on the signaling VC.

io vc [itf.]vpi.vci

Uses the specified VC for
signaling messages instead of the usual 0.0.5.

saal level level

Sets the debug level for
messages related to SAAL (i.e. SSCF and SSCOP) to
level.

sig level level

Sets the debug level for
messages related to signaling (Q.2931 or ISP) to
level.

sig mode mode

Set the mode of operation. The
following modes are available: user for the user
side, network for the network side, and switch
for operation in a switch. The default behaviour is
user.

sig uni30

Use UNI 3.0 signaling. If
specified together with sig uni31, this option sets
UNI 3.1 signaling with a few backwards-compatibility
extensions.

sig uni31

Use UNI 3.1 signaling. This
option can be combined with sig uni30 (see
above).

sig uni40

Use UNI 4.0 signaling. This
option can be combined with sig q.2963.1 (see
below).

sig q.2963.1

Enable peak cell rate
renegotiation. This option is only available with UNI 4.0
signaling.

sig vpci vpci itf itf

Sets up a very simplistic type
of routing. All calls with VPCI values equal to or greater
than vpci will be routed to itf, and their VPI
values will be set to the signaled VPCI minus vpci.
Multiple sig vpci entries can be used to support an
arbitrary number of interfaces. Example: with sig vpci 4
itf 1, a call signaled for VPCI/VCI 0.x is routed to
0.0.x, a call signaled for 6.y is routed to 1.2.y, etc.

policy level level

Sets the debug level for
messages related to policy decisions to level.

policy decision direction address

Takes the specified
decision for calls from or to address.
decision can be either allow or reject.
direction is either from or to. The
address may be wildcarded by prepending a slash and
the number of significant bits (NSAP) or digits (E.164). The
rules are searched in the order in which they appear in
atmsigd.conf until the first match. If no rule
matches, the call is allowed.

entity [itf.]vpi.vci { options ... }

Activates a signaling entity on
that specific VC. Multiple entity clauses can appear
in the same configuration. When using entity, the
option io vc is not available. entity is
optionally followed by the following options, enclosed in
curly braces: vpci (corresponds to sig vpci),
mode (corresponds to sig mode), qos
(corresponds to vc qos), route, and
default. The last two options determine how outbound
calls are routed. The route option is followed by an
address in the format used for addresses in policy.
If no route entry matches the called party number of an
outbound call, the entry marked with default is
selected.

When setting
multiple parameters in the same group, the group name
doesn’t have to be repeated if it is followed by the
parameters in curly braces. Example:

debug { 
level warn 
dump /var/tmp 
log syslog 
trace 100 
}

Line breaks can
be inserted in atmsigd.conf wherever spaces or tabs
are allowed. Everything between a ’#’ and the
end of the line is considered a comment. The ’#’
character cannot be escaped.

If an option is
specified in atmsigd.conf and on the command line,
the command line has priority.

COMPATIBILITY

Certain options
used by past versions of atmsigd but no longer
documented on the man page are still recognized and
supported, but they also yield a warning message. Future
versions of atmsigd will not recognize those
options.

AUTHOR

Werner
Almesberger, EPFL ICA Werner.Almesberger [AT] epfl.ch>

SEE ALSO

atmsigd(8),
qos(7), syslogd(8)