CAL(1POSIX)                POSIX Programmer's Manual               CAL(1POSIX)

PROLOG
       This  manual  page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux
       implementation of this interface may differ (consult the  corresponding
       Linux  manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
       not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       cal -- print a calendar

SYNOPSIS
       cal [[month] year]

DESCRIPTION
       The cal utility shall write a calendar to standard output using the Ju-
       lian calendar for dates from January 1, 1 through September 2, 1752 and
       the Gregorian calendar for dates from September 14, 1752 through Decem-
       ber  31, 9999 as though the Gregorian calendar had been adopted on Sep-
       tember 14, 1752.

       If no operands are given, cal shall produce a  one-month  calendar  for
       the  current  month  in  the  current year. If only the year operand is
       given, cal shall produce a calendar for all twelve months in the  given
       calendar  year.  If  both  month and year operands are given, cal shall
       produce a one-month calendar for the given month in the given year.

OPTIONS
       None.

OPERANDS
       The following operands shall be supported:

       month     Specify the month to be displayed, represented as  a  decimal
                 integer from 1 (January) to 12 (December).

       year      Specify  the year for which the calendar is displayed, repre-
                 sented as a decimal integer from 1 to 9999.

STDIN
       Not used.

INPUT FILES
       None.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The following environment variables shall affect the execution of cal:

       LANG      Provide a default value for  the  internationalization  vari-
                 ables  that are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions vol-
                 ume of POSIX.1-2017, Section 8.2, Internationalization  Vari-
                 ables  for  the  precedence of internationalization variables
                 used to determine the values of locale categories.)

       LC_ALL    If set to a non-empty string value, override  the  values  of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

       LC_CTYPE  Determine  the  locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).

       LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to  standard  er-
                 ror, and informative messages written to standard output.

       LC_TIME   Determine the format and contents of the calendar.

       NLSPATH   Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing
                 of LC_MESSAGES.

       TZ        Determine the timezone used to calculate  the  value  of  the
                 current month.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
       Default.

STDOUT
       The  standard  output  shall be used to display the calendar, in an un-
       specified format.

STDERR
       The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.

OUTPUT FILES
       None.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
       None.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values shall be returned:

        0    Successful completion.

       >0    An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
       Default.

       The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE
       Note that:

           cal 83

       refers to A.D. 83, not 1983.

EXAMPLES
       None.

RATIONALE
       Earlier versions of this standard incorrectly required  that  the  com-
       mand:

           cal 2000

       write  a  one-month  calendar for the current calendar month (no matter
       what the current year is) in the year 2000 to standard output. This did
       not  match  historic  practice in any known version of the cal utility.
       The description has been updated to match historic practice.  When only
       the  year  operand is given, cal writes a twelve-month calendar for the
       specified year.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       A future version of this standard may support locale-specific  recogni-
       tion of the date of adoption of the Gregorian calendar.

SEE ALSO
       The  Base  Definitions  volume  of POSIX.1-2017, Chapter 8, Environment
       Variables

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in  electronic  form
       from  IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology -- Por-
       table Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base  Specifi-
       cations  Issue  7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.   In  the
       event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group  Standard
       is  the  referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online
       at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

       Any typographical or formatting errors that appear  in  this  page  are
       most likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source
       files to man page format. To report such errors,  see  https://www.ker-
       nel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

IEEE/The Open Group                  2017                          CAL(1POSIX)
