NAME

databases
− the known set of GNATS databases

DESCRIPTION

The
databases configuration file is a site-wide
configuration file containing the list of GNATS databases
that are available either on the host itself or remotely
over the network, together with some parameters associated
with each database. It is located in the directory
/usr/share/gnats.

The file
contains one line for each database. For databases located
on the host itself, each line consists of three fields
separated by colons:

database
name:short description:/path/to/database

The first field
is the database name. This is the name used to identify the
database when invoking programs such as query-pr or
send-pr, either by using the --database option
of the program or by setting the GNATSDB environment
variable to the name of the database. The second field is a
short human-readable description of the database contents,
and the final field is the directory where the database
contents are kept.

For a database
that is located across a network, but which should be
accessible from this host, the entry for the database should
look like this:

database
name:short description of database::hostname:port

The first two
fields are the same as for local databases, the third field
is empty (notice the two adjacent ’:’ symbols,
indicating an empty field), the fourth field is the hostname
of the remote GNATS server, and the fifth field is the port
number that the remote GNATS server is running on.

Note that if
you add a new local database, you must create its data
directory, including appropriate subdirectories and
administrative files after adding an entry to
databases. This is best done using the mkdb
tool.

Lines beginning
with a # are ignored.

The database
name default is special; this is the entry used if no
database name is specified via a --database option or
the GNATSDB environment variable.

SEE ALSO

Keeping
Track: Managing Messages With GNATS (also installed as
the GNU Info file gnats.info)

databases(5),
dbconfig(5), delete-pr(8), edit-pr(1)
file-pr(8), gen-index(8), gnats(7),
gnatsd(8), mkcat(8), mkdb(8),
pr-edit(8), query-pr(1), queue-pr(8),
send-pr(1).

COPYING

Copyright (c)
1993, 2000, 2003, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is
granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission
notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is
granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided
that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under
the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is
granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for
modified versions, except that this permission notice may be
included in translations approved by the Free Software
Foundation instead of in the original English.