NAME

firewalld.conf
- firewalld configuration file

SYNOPSIS

/etc/firewalld/firewalld.conf

DESCRIPTION

firewalld.conf
is loaded by firewalld during the initialization process.
The file contains the basic configuration options for
firewalld.

OPTIONS

These are the
options that can be set in the config file:

DefaultZone

This sets the default zone for
connections or interfaces if the zone is not selected or
specified by NetworkManager, initscripts or command line
tool. The default zone is public.

MinimalMark

Deprecated. This option is
ignored and no longer used. Marks are no longer used
internally.

CleanupOnExit

If firewalld stops, it cleans
up all firewall rules. Setting this option to no or false
leaves the current firewall rules untouched. The default
value is yes or true.

Lockdown

If this option is enabled,
firewall changes with the D-Bus interface will be limited to
applications that are listed in the lockdown whitelist (see
firewalld.lockdown-whitelist(5)). The default value
is no or false.

IPv6_rpfilter

If this option is enabled (it
is by default), reverse path filter test on a packet for
IPv6 is performed. If a reply to the packet would be sent
via the same interface that the packet arrived on, the
packet will match and be accepted, otherwise dropped. For
IPv4 the rp_filter is controlled using sysctl.

IndividualCalls

If this option is disabled (it
is by default), combined -restore calls are used and not
individual calls to apply changes to the firewall. The use
of individiual calls increases the time that is needed to
apply changes and to start the daemon, but is good for
debugging as error messages are more specific.

LogDenied

Add logging rules right before
reject and drop rules in the INPUT, FORWARD and OUTPUT
chains for the default rules and also final reject and drop
rules in zones for the configured link-layer packet type.
The possible values are: all, unicast,
broadcast, multicast and off. The
default setting is off, which disables the
logging.

AutomaticHelpers

Deprecated. This option is
ignored and no longer used.

FirewallBackend

Selects the firewall backend
implementation. Possible values are; nftables
(default), or iptables. This applies to all firewalld
primitives. The only exception is direct and passthrough
rules which always use the traditional iptables, ip6tables,
and ebtables backends.

FlushAllOnReload

Flush all runtime rules on a
reload. In previous releases some runtime configuration was
retained during a reload, namely; interface to zone
assignment, and direct rules. This was confusing to users.
To get the old behavior set this to "no". Defaults
to "yes".

RFC3964_IPv4

As per RFC 3964, filter IPv6
traffic with 6to4 destination addresses that correspond to
IPv4 addresses that should not be routed over the public
internet. Defaults to "yes".

AllowZoneDrifting

Older versions of firewalld had
undocumented behavior known as "zone drifting".
This allowed packets to ingress multiple zones - this is a
violation of zone based firewalls. However, some users rely
on this behavior to have a "catch-all" zone, e.g.
the default zone. You can enable this if you desire such
behavior. It's disabled by default for security reasons.
Note: If "yes" packets will only drift from source
based zones to interface based zones (including the default
zone). Packets never drift from interface based zones to
other interfaces based zones (including the default zone).
Valid values; "yes", "no". Defaults to
"no".

SEE ALSO

firewall-applet(1),
firewalld(1), firewall-cmd(1),
firewall-config(1), firewalld.conf(5),
firewalld.direct(5), firewalld.dbus(5),
firewalld.icmptype(5),
firewalld.lockdown-whitelist(5),
firewall-offline-cmd(1),
firewalld.richlanguage(5),
firewalld.service(5), firewalld.zone(5),
firewalld.zones(5), firewalld.policy(5),
firewalld.policies(5), firewalld.ipset(5),
firewalld.helper(5)

NOTES

firewalld home
page:

http://firewalld.org

More
documentation with examples:

http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/FirewallD

AUTHORS

Thomas
Woerner
twoerner [AT] redhat.com>

Developer

Jiri
Popelka jpopelka [AT] redhat.com>

Developer

Eric
Garver eric [AT] garver.life>

Developer