fsck.exfat(8)               System Manager's Manual              fsck.exfat(8)

NAME
       fsck.exfat - check an exFAT filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       fsck.exfat [ -a ] [ -n ] [ -r ] [ -v ] [ -y ] [ -b ] [ -v ] device
       fsck.exfat -V

DESCRIPTION
       fsck.exfat  checks  an  exFAT filesystem and repairs the filesystem de‐
       pending on the options passed. The following  corruptions  can  be  re‐
       paired, and see the option, '-s'.

       -      Boot  sector  has  invalid  parameters. If backup boot sector is
              valid, replace the boot sector with it.

       -      Cluster is marked as free but belonged to a file, or vise versa.
              The bitmap for the cluster is marked properly.

       -      File size is abnormally large considering the count of clusters.
              The size is changed.

       -      File size is abnormally small considering the count of clusters.
              The remaining clusters are deleted.

       -      File's  cluster  chain has an invalid cluster number. The number
              are changed to EOF, and the file size is also changed.

       -      File's cluster chain contains a loop. The loop is broken.

       -      Files share the same cluster.  Cluster chains for  files  except
              one are broken.

       -      Start  cluster  number  is  invalid. The cluster number and file
              size are changed to 0.

       -      Checksum value of direcotry entry set is invalid. Directory  en‐
              try set is deleted.

       -      Bad  hash  value of a file name. The hash value is changed prop‐
              erly.

       -      Fields of directory entry set have invalid values. Directory en‐
              try set is deleted.

OPTIONS
       -a     This  option  does  the same thing as the -p option.  It is pro‐
              vided for backwards compatibility only;  it  is  suggested  that
              people use -p option whenever possible.

       -n     Check  the  filesystem but do not attempt to repair the filesys‐
              tem.

       -p     Repair the filesystem without user interaction if it can be done
              safely.

       -r     Repair the filesystem interactively.

       -s     Create  files  in  /LOST+FOUND  for orphan clusters. These files
              have clusters allocated but  not  belonged  to  any  files  when
              reparing  the filesystem. clusters unused and contiguous in bit‐
              map are allocated to the same file.

       -v     Prints verbose debugging information while  checking  the  exFAT
              filesystem.

       -V     Prints the version number and exits.

       -y     Repair the filesystem answering yes to all questions.

       -b     Try to repair the filesystem even if the exFAT filesystem is not
              found.

EXAMPLES
       repair a corrupted device and create files in /LOST+FOUND,  which  have
       clusters  allocated but not belonged to any files when reparing the de‐
       vice.
       $ fsck.exfat -p -s /dev/sda1

SEE ALSO
       fsck(8), fstab(5),

                                                                 fsck.exfat(8)
