NAME

glimpseserver -
a server version of the glimpse searching package.

OVERVIEW

Glimpse
is an indexing and query system that allows you to search
through all your files very quickly. The use of glimpse in
servers that handle frequent queries is growing, which is
why we wrote glimpseserver to make searches more efficient.
Glimpseserver starts a process that listens to queries, runs
glimpse, and sends the answers back. The main advantage is
that the index is read only once into memory saving a lot of
IO. Glimpse communicates with glimpseserver through a given
port number. See the warning about security below.

SYNOPSIS

glimpseserver
[ -H dir -K port -J
host. ]

DESCRIPTION

-H dir

specifies the directory of the
index. Similar to the -H option of glimpse. The default
directory is the value of the environment variable $HOME if
that is set, otherwise it is the current directory.

-K port

this is the TCP port for
communication: glimpseserver waits for requests on this port
and clients that want to search using the index in specified
by the -H option must use this port (by calling glimpse -K).
The defaults port number is 2001.

-J host

the name of the host. The
default is the host where glimpseserver is running, which is
probably the only possibility anyway.

RESTARTING

If a new index
is created by running glimpseindex every night, restarting a
new glimpseserver is now easier: simply send a SIGUSR2
(signal #31 - i.e., "kill -31 pid") to
glimpseserver; it then re-reads the NEW index and is ready
to serve requests again. (A SIGHUP, i.e., signal #1, can
also be sent instead of SIGUSR2 to make the glimpseserver
re-read the new index.) The recommended way to do a fresh
indexing while the server is still running is: 
send SIGSTOP to glimpseserver 
do the indexing 
send SIGUSR2 to glimpseserver 
send SIGCONT to glimpseserver (to ask it to continue after
stop) 
The SIGSTOP is required so that glimpseserver doesn’t
answer any queries while the indexing is going on.

WARNING

Glimpseserver
should be used only for public servers. Any client that
knows the port number can get any information available in
the index (and port numbers are not that secret). When
glimpse is run as a standalone application it requires read
permission of the index and all the files. When glimpse uses
the -C option to communicate with glimpseserver, glimpse
(the client) does not require any permission, because
glimpseserver does all the searching. So, we recommend not
to run glimpseserver on any data that should be protected.
Glimpseserver is meant to be used for public data.

SEE ALSO

glimpse(1),
glimpseindex(1),

BUGS

Please submit
bug reports or comments at
http://webglimpse.net/bugzilla/

AUTHORS

Udi Manber and
Burra Gopal, Department of Computer Science, University of
Arizona, and Sun Wu, the National Chung-Cheng University,
Taiwan. Now maintained by Golda Velez at Internet WorkShop
(Email: gvelez [AT] webglimpse.net)