NAME

guestfs-release-notes
- libguestfs Release Notes

RELEASE NOTES FOR LIBGUESTFS 1.10

These release
notes only cover the differences from the previous
stable/dev branch split (1.8.0). For detailed changelogs,
please see the git repository, or the ChangeLog file
distributed in the tarball.

New
features 
- libguestfs and tools can be used against live virtual
machines. 
See the 'guestfish --live' and 'guestmount --live' options,
and (for 
the low-level interface) the new APIs set-attach-method and

get-attach-method. 
- New virt tools: 
virt-copy-in, virt-copy-out, virt-tar-in, virt-tar-out. 
- libguestfs can get the drive letter mappings for Windows
guests. 
- virt-inspector displays drive letter mappings for Windows
guests. 
- Drive letters can now be used in virt-edit and guestfish
programs 
when operating on Windows guests. 
- virt-resize now works on 32 bit hosts. 
- You can now inspect the install disks and live CDs of many
different 
operating systems. 
- guestfish 
- guestfish, guestmount, virt-rescue now all support --ro
and --rw 
options, and the default for this can be chosen via a
configuration 
file (/etc/libguestfs-tools.conf). 
- New event API allows more than one callback to be
registered for 
each event, makes it possible to call the API from other
languages, 
and allows nearly all log, debug and trace messages to be
rerouted 
from stderr. 
- Greater FHS compliance for temporary files, including
using /var/tmp 
for large cached files that should survive reboot (instead
of /tmp). 
- guestfish, guestmount -m option allows mount options to be
passed 
through to the underlying filesystem. 
- mkfs-opts allows filesystem features to be specified. 
- More intelligent handling of mountpoints, allowing
mkmountpoint, mount 
and umount-all commands to work together properly. 
- Trace messages are prefixed with a distinct string,
allowing them to 
be easily 'grepped' out from debug output. 
- guestfs_launch (guestfish 'run' command) now produces
progress 
messages (a guestfish progress bar) if it takes longer than
5 
seconds to run. 
- Several long-running commands where we are unable to
estimate time 
to completion generate "pulse mode" progress
events. Progress bar 
in guestfish has been updated to display these. 
- Publish new example code in: C, Perl, Python, OCaml, Ruby.

- New virt-dhcp-address example program. 
- The Java and Ruby bindings have been improved greatly.

- Perl includes a way to get the errno of the last error.

- Python bindings now compatible with rpyc (thanks Erez
Shinan). 
- Transifex is now being used to manage translations. 
http://www.transifex.net/projects/p/libguestfs/ 
- Inspection now supports Red Hat Desktop, Slackware
distributions. 
- Inspection no longer fails for Windows guests that have
two or 
more disks. 
- Inspection can now tell the difference between Windows
2008 Server 
and Windows 7. 
- Inspection can detect 32 bit applications installed in 64
bit 
Windows, running on the WOW64 emulator. 
- A series of protocol fixes has fixed the old bug
RHBZ#576879 
which used to cause errors during the upload command to lose

protocol synchronization. 
- New logo!

Security

[none]

New APIs

first-private, get-attach-method,
inspect-get-drive-mappings, 
inspect-get-product-variant, 
inspect-get-windows-current-control-set, next-private,
resize2fs-M, 
set-attach-method.

Internals

- The 'HACKING' file is obsolete. The contents have been
moved into 
a section of the guestfs(3) manual page. 
- libguestfs-test-tool simplified. It no longer needs the
static 
binary or tries to construct an ISO. 
- rpcgen-generated files are compiled with
-fno-strict-aliasing 
which should be safer (thanks Matt Booth). 
- virt-resize was rewritten in OCaml. 
- guestfish and other tools tested with valgrind; some
memory leaks 
were fixed.

Bugs
fixed 
- 502533 Updated Polish translation of libguestfs 
- 576879 libguestfs protocol loses synchronization if you
'upload' before mounting disks 
- 599503 document that mkmountpoint and umount-all cannot be
mixed 
- 617440 guestfish: fails to tilde expand '~' when the $HOME
env is unset 
- 664558 RFE: Allow to set log callback in Ruby bindings

- 665358 Punjabi Translation Completed (pa_IN) 
- 666577 libguestfs: unknown filesystem /dev/fd0 
- 667610 Multiple bugs, memory leaks in libguestfs ruby
bindings 
- 668112 virt-filesystems command fails on guest with
corrupt filesystem label 
- 668574 guestfish -i is trying to mount all mounts from
/etc/fstab and fails with an error when device doesn't
exists 
- 673479 Add a grep-friendly string to LIBGUESTFS_TRACE
output 
- 674130 Inspection code fails for Windows guest with two
disks 
- 682756 libguestfs trace segfaults when list-filesystems
returns error 
- 682979 libguestfs incorrectly detects Red Hat desktop as
'redhat-based' instead of 'redhat' 
- 690819 mkfs fails creating a filesystem on a disk device
when using a disk with 'ide' interface 
- 691389 Extended attributes don't work over guestmount
(FUSE) 
- 691724 virt-inspector reports unknown filesystem /dev/vda1

- 692545 inspect-list-applications fails to detect 32 bit
apps installed under WOW64 emulator on 64 bit Windows 
- 693324 sfdisk's python interface only accepts lists of
type 'list' for the lines parameter

SEE ALSO

guestfs-examples(1),
guestfs-faq(1), guestfs-performance(1),
guestfs-recipes(1), guestfs-testing(1),
guestfs(3), guestfish(1),
http://libguestfs.org/

AUTHOR

Richard W.M.
Jones

COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C)
2009-2023 Red Hat Inc.

LICENSE

This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is
distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have
received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301
USA.

BUGS

To get a list
of bugs against libguestfs, use this link:
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

To report a new
bug against libguestfs, use this link:
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/enter_bug.cgi?component=libguestfs&product=Virtualization+Tools

When reporting
a bug, please supply:

•

The version of libguestfs.

•

Where you got libguestfs (eg. which Linux distro,
compiled from source, etc)

•

Describe the bug accurately and give a way to reproduce
it. 

•

Run libguestfs-test-tool(1) and paste the
complete, unedited output into the bug report.