NAME

hosts −
host name database

SYNOPSIS

/etc/inet/hosts

/etc/hosts

DESCRIPTION

The
hosts file is a local database that associates the
names of hosts with their Internet Protocol (IP) addresses.
The hosts file can be used in conjunction with, or
instead of, other hosts databases, including the Domain Name
System (DNS), the NIS hosts map and the NIS+
hosts table. Programs use library interfaces to
access information in the hosts file.

The
hosts file has one entry for each IP address of each
host. If a host has more than one IP address, it will have
one entry for each, on consecutive lines. The format of each
line is:

IP-address
official-host-name nicknames...

Items are
separated by any number of SPACE and/or TAB
characters. The first item on a line is the host’s IP
address. The second entry is the host’s official name.
Subsequent entries on the same line are alternative names
for the same machine, or "nicknames." Nicknames
are optional.

For a host with
more than one IP address, consecutive entries for these
addresses may contain the same or differing nicknames.
Different nicknames are useful for assigning distinct names
to different addresses.

A call to
gethostbyname(3NSL) returns a hostent
structure containing the union of all addresses and
nicknames from each line containing a matching official name
or nickname.

A
’#’ indicates the beginning of a comment;
characters up to the end of the line are not interpreted by
routines that search the file.

Network
addresses are written in the conventional "decimal
dot" notation and interpreted using the
inet_addr routine from the Internet address
manipulation library, inet(3SOCKET).

This interface
supports host names as defined in Internet RFC 952 which
states:

A
"name" (Net, Host, Gateway, or Domain name) is a
text string up to 24 characters drawn from the alphabet
(A-Z), digits (0-9), minus sign (−), and period (.).
Note that periods are only allowed when they serve to
delimit components of "domain style names". (See
RFC 921, "Domain Name System Implementation
Schedule," for background). No blank or space
characters are permitted as part of a name. No distinction
is made between upper and lower case. The first character
must be an alpha character. The last character must not be a
minus sign or period.

Although the
interface accepts host names longer than 24 characters for
the host portion (exclusive of the domain component),
choosing names for hosts that adhere to the 24 character
restriction will insure maximum interoperability on the
Internet.

A host which
serves as a GATEWAY should have "−GATEWAY"
or "−GW" as part of its name. Hosts which do
not serve as Internet gateways should not use
"−GATEWAY" and "−GW" as part
of their names. A host which is a TAC should have
"−TAC" as the last part of its host name, if
it is a DoD host. Single character names or nicknames are
not allowed.

RFC 952 has
been modified by RFC 1123 to relax the restriction on the
first character being a digit.

EXAMPLES

Example 1:
Example of a typical line from the hosts file.

Here is a
typical line from the hosts file:

192.9.1.20
gaia # John Smith

SEE ALSO

in.named(1M),
gethostbyname(3NSL), inet(3SOCKET),
nsswitch.conf(4), resolv.conf(4)

NOTES

/etc/inet/hosts
is the official SVR4 name of the hosts file. The
symbolic link /etc/hosts exists for BSD
compatibility.