Lintian::Deb822::Section(3) Debian Package Checker Lintian::Deb822::Section(3)

NAME
       Lintian::Deb822::Section -- A paragraph in a control file

SYNOPSIS
        use Lintian::Deb822::Section;

DESCRIPTION
       Represents a paragraph in a Deb822 control file.

INSTANCE METHODS
       legend
           Returns exact field names for their lowercase versions.

       verbatim
           Returns a hash to the raw, unedited and verbatim field values.

       unfolded
           Returns a hash to unfolded field values. Continuations lines have
           been connected.

       positions
           The original line positions.

       trimmed_list(FIELD [, SEPARATOR])
       unfolded_value (FIELD)
           This method returns the unfolded value of the control field FIELD
           in the control file for the package.  For a source package, this is
           the *.dsc file; for a binary package, this is the control file in
           the control section of the package.

           If FIELD is passed but not present, then this method returns undef.

       value (FIELD)
           If FIELD is given, this method returns the value of the control
           field FIELD.

       untrimmed_value (FIELD)
           If FIELD is given, this method returns the value of the control
           field FIELD.

       text (FIELD)
       store (FIELD, VALUE)
       drop (FIELD)
       declares (NAME)
           Returns a boolean for whether the named field exists.

       names
           Returns an array with the literal field names.

       literal_name
           Returns an array with the literal, true case field names.

       position
           With an argument, returns the starting line of the named field.

           Without an argument, return the starting line of the paragraph.

       extra

AUTHOR
       Originally written by Felix Lechner <felix.lechner@lease-up.com> for
       Lintian.

SEE ALSO
       lintian(1)

Lintian v2.116.3                  2023-02-05       Lintian::Deb822::Section(3)
