NAME

ostree-prepare-root
- Change the view of a mounted root filesystem to an ostree
deployment

SYNOPSIS

ostree prepare-root
{TARGET} 

DESCRIPTION

At its core,
ostree operates on an existing mounted filesystem. Tooling
such as ostree admin deploy will create a new directory that
can be used as a bootable target. This tool is designed to
run in an initramfs and set up "remapping" mounts
as a view into that filesystem.

As of more
recently, this tool also has optional support for composefs,
which creates a distinct mount point layered on top of the
underlying filesystem.

The most common
pattern today is to use systemd in an initramfs. The systemd
unit shipped upstream is ordered in this way:
After=sysroot.mount and Before=initrd-root-fs.target

When it runs,
the mounted filesystem at the provided TARGET (usually
/sysroot) will be changed such that what appears at /sysroot
is actually the "deployment root" - i.e. a
particular versioned subdirectory. What was formerly the
"physical root" i.e. the real root of the
filesystem will appear as /sysroot/sysroot.

For /var, by
default a bind mount is created from the deployment root to
/sysroot/var.

A read-only
bind mount is created over /sysroot/usr. The immutable bit
(see chattr(1)) is set on the deployment root, so this
provides basic protection for filesystem mutation. If the
sysroot.readonly option is enabled, then /sysroot/sysroot is
mounted read-only to provide further protection and a
writable bind mount for /sysroot/etc is created.

Finally, when
higher level tooling such as systemd performs a switch-root
operation, what was /sysroot becomes / and after the
transition into the real root, the system will be booted
into the "deployment", which is a versioned
immutable filesystem tree. The ostree tooling running in the
real root thereafter performs further changes by operating
on /sysroot which is now the "physical root".

CONFIGURATION

The
/usr/lib/ostree/prepare-root.conf (or
/etc/ostree/prepare-root.conf) config file is parsed by
ostree-prepare-root. This file must be present in the
initramfs. The default dracut module will copy it from the
real root if present.

sysroot.readonly

A boolean value; the default is
false unless composefs is enabled. If this is set to true,
then the /sysroot mount point is mounted read-only.

etc.transient

A boolean value; the default is
false. If this is set to true, then the /etc mount point is
mounted transiently i.e. a non-persistent location.

root.transient

A boolean value; the default is
false. If this is set to true, then the / filesystem will be
a writable overlayfs, with the upper directory being a
hidden directory (in the underlying system root filesystem)
that will persist across reboots by default. However,
changes will be discarded on OS updates!

Enabling this
option can be very useful for cases such as packages
(dpkg/rpm/etc) that write content into /opt, particularly
where they expect the target to be writable at runtime. To
make that work, ensure that your /opt directory is *not* a
symlink to /var/opt, but is just an empty directory.

Note the /usr
mount point remains read-only by default. This option is
independent of etc.transient and sysroot.readonly; it is
supported for example to have root.transient=true but
etc.transient=false in which case changes to /etc continue
to persist across updates, with the default OSTree 3-way
merge applied.

composefs.enabled

This can be yes, no. maybe or
signed. The default is maybe. If set to yes or signed, then
composefs is always used, and the boot fails if it is not
available. Additionally if set to signed, boot will fail if
the image cannot be validated by a public key. If set to
maybe, then composefs is used if supported.

composefs.keypath

Path to a file with Ed25519
public keys in the initramfs, used if composefs.enabled is
set to signed. The default value for this is
/etc/ostree/initramfs-root-binding.key. For a valid signed
boot the target OSTree commit must be signed by at least one
public key in this file, and the commitfs digest listed in
the commit must match the target composefs image.

The following
kernel commandline parameters are also parsed:

ostree.prepare-root.composefs

This accepts the same values as
composefs.enabled above, and overrides the config file (if
present). For example, specifying
ostree.prepare-root.composefs=0 will disable composefs, even
if it is enabled by default in the initrd config.

SYSTEMD

As mentioned
above, this tool comes with a systemd unit file
ostree-prepare-root.service and it is primarily expected to
be invoked this way.

COMPOSEFS

The default for
ostree is to create a plain hardlinked filesystem tree.
composefs support is currently experimental; see the
upstream doc/composefs.md for more information on using
it.