NAME

pmlogreduce
- temporal reduction of Performance Co-Pilot archives

SYNOPSIS

pmlogreduce
[-z?] [-A align] [-s
samples] [-S starttime] [-t
interval] [-T endtime] [-v
volsamples] [-Z timezone] input
output

DESCRIPTION

pmlogreduce
reads one set of Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) archives
identified by input and creates a temporally reduced
PCP archive in output. input is a
comma-separated list of names, each of which may be the base
name of an archive or the name of a directory containing one
or more archives. The data reduction involves statistical
and temporal reduction of samples with an output sampling
interval defined by the -t option in the
output archive (independent of the sampling intervals
in the input archives), and is further controlled by
other command line arguments.

For some
metrics, temporal data reduction is not going to be helpful,
so for metrics with types PM_TYPE_AGGREGATE or
PM_TYPE_EVENT, a warning is issued if these metrics
are found in input and they will be skipped and not
appear in the output archive.

OPTIONS

The available
command line options are: 
-A align, --align=align

Specify a
’’natural’’ alignment of the output
sample times; refer to PCPIntro(1).

-s samples,
--samples=samples

The argument samples
defines the number of samples to be written to
output. If samples is 0 or -s is not
specified, pmlogreduce will sample until the end of
the set of PCP archives, or the end of the time window as
specified by -T, whichever comes first. The -s
option will override the -T option if it occurs
sooner.

-S starttime,
--start=starttime

Define the start of a time
window to restrict the samples retrieved from the
input archives; refer to PCPIntro(1).

-t interval,
--interval=interval

Consecutive samples in the
output archive will appear with a time delta defined
by interval; refer to PCPIntro(1). Note the
default value is 600 (seconds, i.e. 10 minutes).

-T endtime,
--finish=endtime

Define the termination of a
time window to restrict the samples retrieved from the
input archives; refer to PCPIntro(1).

-v volsamples

The output archive is
potentially a multi-volume data set, and the -v
option causes pmlogreduce to start a new volume after
volsamples records have been written to the
output archive.

Independent of
any -v option, each volume of an archive is limited
to no more than 2^31 bytes, so pmlogreduce will
automatically create a new volume for the archive before
this limit is reached.

-z,
--hostzone

Use the local timezone of the
host from the input archives when displaying the date
and time, or interpreting the -S and -T
options. The default is to initially use the timezone of the
local host.

-Z timezone,
--timezone=timezone

Use timezone when
displaying the date and time, or interpreting the -S
and -T options. Timezone is in the format of
the environment variable TZ as described in
environ(7).

-?, --help

Display usage message and
exit.

DATA REDUCTION

The statistical
and temporal reduction follows the following rules:

1.

Consecutive records from input are read without
interpolation, and at most one output record is written for
each interval, summarizing the performance data over
that period.

2.

If the semantics of a metric indicates it is
instantaneous or discrete then output
value is computed as the arithmetic mean of the observations
(if any) over each interval.

3.

If the semantics of a metric indicates it is a
counter then the following transformations are
applied: 

a)

Metrics with 32-bit precision
are promoted to 64-bit precision.

b)

Any counter wrap (overflow) is noted, and appropriate
adjustment made in the value of the metric over each
interval. This will be correct in the case of a
single counter wrap, but will silently underestimate
in the case where more than one counter wrap occurs between
consecutive observations in the input archives, and
silently overestimate in the case where a counter
reset occurs between consecutive observations in the
input archives; unfortunately these situations cannot
be detected, but are believed to be rare events for the sort
of production monitoring environments where
pmlogreduce is most likely to be deployed.

4.

Any changes in
instance domains, and indeed all metadata, is preserved.

5.

Any
’’mark’’ records in the input
archives (as created by pmlogextract(1)) will be
preserved in the output archive, so periods where no
data is available are maintained, and data interpolation
will not occur across these periods when the
output archive is subsequently processed with PCP
applications. 

CAVEATS

The preamble
metrics (pmcd.pmlogger.archive, pmcd.pmlogger.host, and
pmcd.pmlogger.port), which are automatically recorded by
pmlogger at the start of the archive, may not be
present in the archive output by pmlogreduce. These
metrics are only relevant while the archive is being
created, and have no significance once recording has
finished.

DIAGNOSTICS

All error
conditions detected by pmlogreduce are reported on
stderr with textual (if sometimes terse)
explanation.

Should the
input archives be corrupted (this can happen if the
pmlogger instance writing the archive suddenly dies),
then pmlogreduce will detect and report the position
of the corruption in the file, and any subsequent
information from the input archives will not be
processed.

If any error is
detected, pmlogreduce will exit with a non-zero
status.

FILES

For each of the
input and output archives, several physical
files are used. 
archive.meta

metadata (metric descriptions,
instance domains, etc.) for the archive

archive.0

initial volume of metrics
values (subsequent volumes have suffixes 1, 2,
...) - for input these files may have been previously
compressed with bzip2(1) or gzip(1) and thus
may have an additional .bz2 or .gz suffix.

archive.index

temporal index to support rapid
random access to the other files in the archive.

PCP ENVIRONMENT

Environment
variables with the prefix PCP_ are used to
parameterize the file and directory names used by PCP. On
each installation, the file /etc/pcp.conf contains
the local values for these variables. The $PCP_CONF
variable may be used to specify an alternative configuration
file, as described in pcp.conf(5).

SEE ALSO

PCPIntro(1),
pmdumplog(1), pmlc(1), pmlogextract(1),
pmlogger(1), pcp.conf(5) and
pcp.env(5).