NAME

SELinux - NSA
Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux)

DESCRIPTION

NSA
Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) is an implementation of a
flexible mandatory access control architecture in the Linux
operating system. The SELinux architecture provides general
support for the enforcement of many kinds of mandatory
access control policies, including those based on the
concepts of Type Enforcement®, Role- Based Access
Control, and Multi-Level Security. Background information
and technical documentation about SELinux can be found at
https://github.com/SELinuxProject.

The
/etc/selinux/config configuration file controls
whether SELinux is enabled or disabled, and if enabled,
whether SELinux operates in permissive mode or enforcing
mode. The SELINUX variable may be set to any one of
disabled, permissive, or enforcing to
select one of these options. The disabled disables
most of the SELinux kernel and application code, leaving the
system running without any SELinux protection. The
permissive option enables the SELinux code, but
causes it to operate in a mode where accesses that would be
denied by policy are permitted but audited. The
enforcing option enables the SELinux code and causes
it to enforce access denials as well as auditing them.
permissive mode may yield a different set of denials
than enforcing mode, both because enforcing mode will
prevent an operation from proceeding past the first denial
and because some application code will fall back to a less
privileged mode of operation if denied access.

NOTE:
Disabling SELinux by setting SELINUX=disabled in
/etc/selinux/config is deprecated and depending on
kernel version and configuration it might not lead to
SELinux being completely disabled. Specifically, the SELinux
hooks will still be executed internally, but the SELinux
policy will not be loaded and no operation will be denied.
In such state, the system will act as if SELinux was
disabled, although some operations might behave slightly
differently. To properly disable SELinux, it is recommended
to use the selinux=0 kernel boot option instead. In
that case SELinux will be disabled regardless of what is set
in the /etc/selinux/config file.

The
/etc/selinux/config configuration file also controls
what policy is active on the system. SELinux allows for
multiple policies to be installed on the system, but only
one policy may be active at any given time. At present,
multiple kinds of SELinux policy exist: targeted, mls for
example. The targeted policy is designed as a policy where
most user processes operate without restrictions, and only
specific services are placed into distinct security domains
that are confined by the policy. For example, the user would
run in a completely unconfined domain while the named daemon
or apache daemon would run in a specific domain tailored to
its operation. The MLS (Multi-Level Security) policy is
designed as a policy where all processes are partitioned
into fine-grained security domains and confined by policy.
MLS also supports the Bell And LaPadula model, where
processes are not only confined by the type but also the
level of the data.

You can define
which policy you will run by setting the SELINUXTYPE
environment variable within /etc/selinux/config. You
must reboot and possibly relabel if you change the policy
type to have it take effect on the system. The corresponding
policy configuration for each such policy must be installed
in the /etc/selinux/{SELINUXTYPE}/ directories.

A given SELinux
policy can be customized further based on a set of
compile-time tunable options and a set of runtime policy
booleans. system-config-selinux allows customization
of these booleans and tunables.

Many domains
that are protected by SELinux also include SELinux man pages
explaining how to customize their policy.

FILE LABELING

All files,
directories, devices ... have a security context/label
associated with them. These context are stored in the
extended attributes of the file system. Problems with
SELinux often arise from the file system being mislabeled.
This can be caused by booting the machine with a non SELinux
kernel. If you see an error message containing file_t, that
is usually a good indicator that you have a serious problem
with file system labeling.

The best way to
relabel the file system is to create the flag file
/.autorelabel and reboot.
system-config-selinux, also has this capability. The
restorecon/fixfiles commands are also
available for relabeling files.

Please note
that using mount flag nosuid also disables SELinux
domain transitions, unless permission
nosuid_transition is used in the policy to allow
this, which in turn needs also policy capability
nnp_nosuid_transition.

AUTHOR

This manual
page was written by Dan Walsh dwalsh [AT] redhat.com>.

FILES

/etc/selinux/config

SEE ALSO

booleans(8),
setsebool(8), sepolicy(8),
system-config-selinux(8), togglesebool(8),
restorecon(8), fixfiles(8),
setfiles(8), semanage(8),
sepolicy(8)

Every confined
service on the system has a man page in the following
format:

_selinux(8)

For example,
httpd has the httpd_selinux(8) man page.

man -k
selinux

Will list all
SELinux man pages.