NAME

slapd.backends
- backends for slapd, the stand-alone LDAP daemon

DESCRIPTION

The
slapd(8) daemon can use a variety of different
backends for serving LDAP requests. Backends may be compiled
statically into slapd, or when module support is enabled,
they may be dynamically loaded. Multiple instances of a
backend can be configured, to serve separate databases from
the same slapd server.

Configuration
options for each backend are documented separately in the
corresponding slapd-(5) manual pages.

asyncmeta

This backend performs basic
LDAP proxying with respect to a set of remote LDAP servers.
It is an enhancement of the ldap backend that
operates asynchronously, to prevent tying up slapd threads
while waiting for operations to complete.

config

This backend is used to manage the configuration of
slapd at run-time. Unlike other backends, only a single
instance of the config backend may be defined. It
also instantiates itself automatically, so it is always
present even if not explicitly defined in the
slapd.conf(5) file.

dnssrv

This backend is experimental. It serves up referrals
based upon SRV resource records held in the Domain Name
System. 

ldap

This backend acts as a proxy to forward incoming
requests to another LDAP server.

ldif

This database uses the filesystem to build the tree
structure of the database, using plain ascii files to store
data. Its usage should be limited to very simple databases,
where performance is not a requirement. This backend also
supports subtree renames.

mdb

This is the recommended primary backend. This backend
uses OpenLDAP’s own MDB transactional database
library. This backend also supports subtree renames.

meta

This backend performs basic LDAP proxying with respect
to a set of remote LDAP servers. It is an enhancement of the
ldap backend.

monitor

This backend provides
information about the running status of the slapd daemon.
Only a single instance of the monitor backend may be
defined.

ndb

This backend is experimental, incomplete, and
deprecated. It uses the transactional database interface of
the MySQL Cluster Engine (NDB) to store data. Note that
Oracle, which now owns MySQL, has withdrawn support for NDB
and this backend is unlikely to be developed any
further. 

null

Operations in this backend succeed but do nothing.

passwd

This backend is provided for demonstration purposes
only. It serves up user account information from the system
passwd(5) file.

perl

This backend embeds a perl(1) interpreter into
slapd. It runs Perl subroutines to implement LDAP
operations. This backend is deprecated.

relay

This backend is experimental. It redirects LDAP
operations to another database in the same server, based on
the naming context of the request. Its use requires the
rwm overlay (see slapo-rwm(5) for details) to
rewrite the naming context of the request. It is primarily
intended to implement virtual views on databases that
actually store data.

sql

This backend is experimental and deprecated. It services
LDAP requests from an SQL database.

wiredtiger

This backend is experimental.
It services LDAP requests from a wiredtiger database.

FILES

/etc/ldap/slapd.conf

default slapd configuration
file

/etc/ldap/slapd.d

default slapd configuration
directory

SEE ALSO

ldap(3),
slapd-asyncmeta(5), slapd-config(5),
slapd-dnssrv(5), slapd-ldap(5),
slapd-ldif(5), slapd-mdb(5),
slapd-meta(5), slapd-monitor(5),
slapd-ndb(5), slapd-null(5),
slapd-passwd(5), slapd-perl(5),
slapd-relay(5), slapd-sql(5),
slapd-wt(5), slapd.conf(5),
slapd.overlays(5), slapd(8). "OpenLDAP
Administrator’s Guide"
(http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

OpenLDAP
Software is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP
Project http://www.openldap.org/>. OpenLDAP
Software is derived from the University of Michigan LDAP
3.3 Release.