NAME

stdio -
standard input/output library functions

SYNOPSIS

#include

FILE
*stdin; 
FILE *stdout; 
FILE *stderr;

DESCRIPTION

The standard
I/O library provides a simple and efficient buffered stream
I/O interface. Input and output is mapped into logical data
streams and the physical I/O characteristics are concealed.
The functions and macros are listed below; more information
is available from the individual man pages.

A stream is
associated with an external file (which may be a physical
device) by opening a file, which may involve creating
a new file. Creating an existing file causes its former
contents to be discarded. If a file can support positioning
requests (such as a disk file, as opposed to a terminal),
then a file position indicator associated with the
stream is positioned at the start of the file (byte zero),
unless the file is opened with append mode. If append mode
is used, it is unspecified whether the position indicator
will be placed at the start or the end of the file. The
position indicator is maintained by subsequent reads, writes
and positioning requests. All input occurs as if the
characters were read by successive calls to the
fgetc(3) function; all output takes place as if all
characters were written by successive calls to the
fputc(3) function.

A file is
disassociated from a stream by closing the file.
Output streams are flushed (any unwritten buffer contents
are transferred to the host environment) before the stream
is disassociated from the file. The value of a pointer to a
FILE object is indeterminate after a file is closed
(garbage).

A file may be
subsequently reopened, by the same or another program
execution, and its contents reclaimed or modified (if it can
be repositioned at the start). If the main function returns
to its original caller, or the exit(3) function is
called, all open files are closed (hence all output streams
are flushed) before program termination. Other methods of
program termination, such as abort(3) do not bother
about closing files properly.

At program
startup, three text streams are predefined and need not be
opened explicitly: standard input (for reading
conventional input), standard output (for writing
conventional output), and standard error (for writing
diagnostic output). These streams are abbreviated
stdin, stdout, and stderr. When opened,
the standard error stream is not fully buffered; the
standard input and output streams are fully buffered if and
only if the streams do not refer to an interactive
device.

Output streams
that refer to terminal devices are always line buffered by
default; pending output to such streams is written
automatically whenever an input stream that refers to a
terminal device is read. In cases where a large amount of
computation is done after printing part of a line on an
output terminal, it is necessary to fflush(3) the
standard output before going off and computing so that the
output will appear.

The
stdio library is a part of the library libc
and routines are automatically loaded as needed by
cc(1). The SYNOPSIS sections of the following manual
pages indicate which include files are to be used, what the
compiler declaration for the function looks like and which
external variables are of interest.

The following
are defined as macros; these names may not be reused without
first removing their current definitions with #undef:
BUFSIZ, EOF, FILENAME_MAX,
FOPEN_MAX, L_cuserid, L_ctermid,
L_tmpnam, NULL, SEEK_END,
SEEK_SET, SEEK_CUR, TMP_MAX,
clearerr, feof, ferror, fileno,
getc, getchar, putc, putchar,
stderr, stdin, stdout. Function
versions of the macro functions feof, ferror,
clearerr, fileno, getc, getchar,
putc, and putchar exist and will be used if
the macros definitions are explicitly removed.

List of
functions

CONFORMING TO

The
stdio library conforms to C89.

SEE ALSO

close(2),
open(2), read(2), write(2),
stdout(3), unlocked_stdio(3)

COLOPHON

This page is
part of release 5.09 of the Linux man-pages project.
A description of the project, information about reporting
bugs, and the latest version of this page, can be found at
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.