NAME

stopping
− event signalling that a job is stopping

SYNOPSIS

stopping
JOB=JOB INSTANCE=INSTANCE
RESULT=RESULT [PROCESS=PROCESS]
[EXIT_STATUS=STATUS]
[EXIT_SIGNAL=SIGNAL] [ENV]...

DESCRIPTION

The
stopping event is generated by the Upstart
init(8) daemon when an instance of a job begins
stopping. The JOB environment variable contains the
job name, and the INSTANCE environment variable
contains the instance name which will be empty for
single-instance jobs.

If the job is
stopping normally, the RESULT environment variable
will be ok, otherwise if the job is stopping because
it has failed it will be failed.

When the job
has failed, the process that failed will be given in the
PROCESS environment variable. This may be
pre-start, post-start, main,
pre-stop or post-stop; it may also be the
special value respawn to indicate that the job is
stopping because it hit the respawn limit.

Finally in the
case of a failed job, one of either EXIT_STATUS or
EXIT_SIGNAL may be given to indicate the cause of the
stop. Either EXIT_STATUS will contain the exit status
code of the process, or EXIT_SIGNAL will contain the
name of the signal that the process received. The normal
exit job configuration stanza can be used to prevent
particular exit status values or signals resulting in a
failed job, see init(5) for more information.

If neither
EXIT_STATUS or EXIT_SIGNAL is given for a
failed process, it is because the process failed to spawn
(for example, file not found). See the system logs for the
error.

init(8)
will wait for all services started by this event to be
running, all tasks started by this event to have finished
and all jobs stopped by this event to be stopped before
allowing the job to continue stopping.

This allows
jobs to depend on other jobs, safely stopping themselves
before their dependency goes away. This event is typically
combined with the started(7) event by services.

Job
configuration files may use the export stanza to
export environment variables from their own environment into
the stopping event. See init(5) for more
details.

EXAMPLE

A service that
wishes to depend on another service might use:

start on
started apache 
stop on stopping apache

A task that
must be run before another task or service is stopped might
use:

start on
stopping postgresql RESULT=ok

SEE ALSO

starting(7)
started(7) stopped(7) init(5)