NAME

tlshd.conf -
tlshd configuration file

SYNOPSIS

/etc/tlshd.conf

DESCRIPTION

The
tlshd program implements a user agent that services
TLS handshake requests on behalf of kernel TLS consumers.
Its configuration file contains information that the program
reads when it starts up. The file is designed to be human
readable and contains a list of keywords with values that
provide various types of information. The configuration file
is considered a trusted source of information.

The
tlshd program reads this file once when it is
launched. Thus changes made in this file take effect only
when the tlshd program is restarted. If this file
does not exist, the tlshd program exits
immediately.

OPTIONS

The
configuration file is split into sections.

The
[debug] section specifies debugging settings for the
tlshd program. In this section, there are three
available options: 
loglevel

This option specifies an
integer which indicates the debug message level. Zero, the
quietest setting, is the default.

tls

This option specifies an integer which indicates the
debug message level for TLS library calls. Zero, the
quietest setting, is the default.

nl

This option specifies an integer which indicates the
debug message level for netlink library calls. Zero, the
quietest setting, is the default.

The
[authenticate] section specifies default
authentication material when establishing TLS sessions. In
this section, there is one available option: 
keyrings

This option specifies a
semicolon-separated list of auxiliary keyrings that contain
handshake authentication tokens. tlshd links these
keyrings into its session keyring. The configuration file
may specify either a keyring’s name or serial number.
The default is to provide no keyring.

And, in this
section, there are two subsections: [client] and
[server]. The tlshd program consults the
settings in the [client] subsection when handling the
client end of a handshake, and it consults the settings in
the [server] subsection when handling the server end
of a handshake.

In each of
these two subsections, there are three available options:

x509.truststore

This option specifies the
pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded trust store that
is to be used to verify a certificate during a handshake. If
this option is not specified, tlshd uses the
system’s trust store.

x509.certificate

This option specifies the
pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded x.509
certificate that is to be presented during a handshake
request when no other certificate is available.

x509.private_key

This option specifies the
pathname of a file containing a PEM-encoded private key
associated with the above certificate.

NOTES

This software
is a prototype. It’s purpose is for demonstration and
as a proof-of-concept. USE THIS SOFTWARE AT YOUR OWN
RISK.

SEE ALSO

tlshd(8)

AUTHOR

Chuck Lever