NAME

xnlock −
amusing lock screen program with message for passers-by

SYNOPSIS

xnlock [
options ] [ message ]

DESCRIPTION

xnlock
is a program that acts as a screen saver for workstations
running X11. It also "locks" the screen such that
the workstation can be left unattended without worry that
someone else will walk up to it and mess everything up. When
xnlock is running, a little man with a big nose and a
hat runs around spewing out messages to the screen. By
default, the messages are "humorous", but that
depends on your sense of humor.

If a key or
mouse button is pressed, a prompt is printed requesting the
user’s password. If a RETURN is not typed within 30
seconds, the little man resumes running around.

Text on the
command line is used as the message. For example:

% xnlock I´m out to lunch for a couple of
hours. 

Note the need to quote shell
metacharacters.

In the absence
of flags or text, xnlock displays random
fortunes.

OPTIONS

Command line
options override all resource specifications. All arguments
that are not associated with a command line option is taken
to be message text that the little man will "say"
every once in a while. The resource xnlock.text may
be set to a string. 
−fn fontname

The default font is the first
18 point font in the new century schoolbook family.
While larger fonts are recokmmended over smaller ones, any
font in the server’s font list will work. The resource
to use for this option is xnlock.font.

−filename
filename

Take the message to be
displayed from the file filename. If filename
is not specified, $HOME/.msgfile is used. If the
contents of the file are changed during runtime, the most
recent text of the file is used (allowing the displayed
message to be altered remotely). Carriage returns within the
text are allowed, but tabs or other control characters are
not translated and should not be used. The resource
available for this option is xnlock.file.

−ar

Accept root’s password to unlock screen. This
option is true by default. The reason for this is so that
someone’s screen may be unlocked by autorized users in
case of emergency and the person running the program is
still out to lunch. The resource available for specifying
this option is xnlock.acceptRootPasswd.

−noar

Don’t accept root’s password. This option is
for paranoids who fear their peers might breakin using
root’s password and remove their files anyway.
Specifying this option on the command line overrides the
xnlock.acceptRootPasswd if set to True.

−ip

Ignore password prompt. The resource available for this
option is xnlock.ignorePasswd.

−noip

Don’t ignore password prompt. This is available in
order to override the resource ignorePasswd if set to
True. 

-fg color

Specifies the foreground color.
The resource available for this is
xnlock.foreground.

-bg color

Specifies the background color.
The resource available for this is
xnlock.background.

−rv

Reverse the foreground and background colors. The
resource for this is xvnlock.reverseVideo.

−norv

Don’t use reverse video. This is available to
override the reverseVideo resource if set to True.

−prog
program

Receive message text from the
running program program. If there are arguments to
program, encase them with the name of the program in
quotes (e.g. xnlock -t "fortune -o"). The resource
for this is xnlock.program.

RESOURCES

xnlock.font:
fontname 
xnlock.foreground: color 
xnlock.background: color 
xnlock.reverseVideo: True/False 
xnlock.text: Some random text string 
xnlock.program: program [args] 
xnlock.ignorePasswd: True/False 
xnlock.acceptRootPasswd: True/False

FILES

xnlock
executable file 
~/.msgfile default message file

AUTHOR

Dan Heller
argv [AT] sun.com> Copyright (c) 1985, 1990. 
The original version of this program was written using
pixrects on a Sun 2 running SunOS 1.1.